<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XXVII</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-27" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXVII</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">A Pair of Natural Enemies</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>After the evening at Grange Lane which has been described, Reginald May met Northcote in the street several times, as was unavoidable, considering the size of the place, and the concentration of all business in Carlingford within the restricted length of the High Street. The two young men bowed stiffly to each other at first; then by dint of seeing each other frequently, got to inclinations a little more friendly, until at length one day when Northcote was passing by the College, as Reginald stood in the old doorway, the young chaplain feeling magnanimous on his own ground, and somewhat amused by the idea which suddenly presented itself to him, asked his Dissenting assailant if he would not come in and see the place. Reginald had the best of it in every way. It was he who was the superior, holding out a hand of favour and kindness to one who here at least, was beneath him in social consideration; and it was he who was the assailed, and, so to speak, injured party, and who nevertheless extended to his assailant a polite recognition, which, perhaps, no one else occupying the same position would have given. He was amused by his own magnanimity, and enjoyed it, and the pleasure of heaping coals of fire upon his adversary’s head was entirely delightful to him.</p>
			<p>“I know you do not approve of the place or me,” he said, forgetting in that moment of triumph all his own objections to it, and the ground upon which these objections were founded. “Come in and see it, will you? The chapel and the rooms are worth seeing. They are fair memorials of the past, however little the foundation may be to your mind.”</p>
			<p>He laughed as he spoke, but without ill-humour; for it is easy to be good-humoured when one feels one’s self on the gaining, not the losing side. As for Northcote, pride kept him from any demonstration of unwillingness to look at what the other had to show. He would not for worlds have betrayed himself. It was expedient for him, if he did not mean to acknowledge himself worsted, to put on a good face and accept the politeness cheerfully. So that it was on the very strength of the conflict which made them first aware of each other’s existence, that they thus came together. The Dissenter declared his entire delight in being taken to see the place, and with secret satisfaction, not easily put into words, the Churchman led the way. They went to all the rooms where the old men sat, some dozing by the fire, some reading, some busy about small businesses; one had a turning-lathe, another was illuminating texts, a third had a collection of curiosities of a heterogeneous kind, which he was cleaning and arranging, writing neat little labels in the neatest little hand for each article.</p>
			<p>“The charity of our ancestors might have been worse employed,” said Reginald. “A home for the old and poor is surely as fine a kind of benevolence as one could think of⁠—if benevolence is to be tolerated at all.”</p>
			<p>“Ye-es,” said Northcote. “I don’t pretend to disapprove of benevolence. Perhaps the young who have a future before them, who can be of use to their country, are better objects still.”</p>
			<p>“Because they will pay,” said Reginald; “because we can get something out of them in return; while we have already got all that is to be had out of the old people? A very modern doctrine, but not so lovely as the old-fashioned way.”</p>
			<p>“I did not mean that,” said the other, colouring. “Certainly it ought to pay; everything, I suppose, is meant to pay one way or other. The life and progress of the young, or the gratified sentiment of the benefactor, who feels that he has provided for the old⁠—which is the noblest kind of payment? I think the first, for my part.”</p>
			<p>“For that matter, there is a large and most flourishing school, which you will come across without fail if you work among the poor. Do you work among the poor? Pardon my curiosity; I don’t know.”</p>
			<p>“It depends upon what you call the poor,” said the other, who did not like to acknowledge the absence of this element in Salem Chapel; “if you mean the destitute classes, the lowest level, no; but if you mean the respectable, comfortable⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Persons of small income?” said Reginald. “I mean people with no incomes at all; people without trades, or anything to earn a comfortable living by; labouring people, here today and away tomorrow; women who take in washing, and men who go about hunting for a day’s work. These are the kind of people the Church is weighted with.”</p>
			<p>“I don’t see any trace of them,” said the Nonconformist. “Smooth lawns, fine trees, rooms that countesses might live in. I can’t see any trace of them here.”</p>
			<p>“There is no harm in a bit of grass and a few trees, and the rooms are cheaper in their long continuance than any flimsy new rubbish that could be built.”</p>
			<p>“I know I am making an unfortunate quotation,” said Northcote; “but there is reason in it. It might be sold for so much, and given to the poor.”</p>
			<p>“Cheating the poor, in the first place,” said Reginald, warmly concerned for what he felt to be his own; “just as the paddock an old horse dies in might bear a crop instead, and pay the owner; but what would become of the old horse?”</p>
			<p>“Half-quarter of this space would do quite as well for your pensioners, and they might do without⁠—”</p>
			<p>“A chaplain!” said Reginald, laughing in spite of himself. “I know you think so. It is a sinecure.”</p>
			<p>“Well, I think they may say their prayers for themselves; a young man like you, full of talent, full of capability⁠—I beg your pardon,” said Northcote, “you must excuse me, I grudge the waste. There are so many things more worthy of you that you might do.”</p>
			<p>“What, for example?”</p>
			<p>“Anything almost,” cried the other; “digging, ploughing, building⁠—anything! And for me too.”</p>
			<p>This he said in an undertone; but Reginald heard, and did not carry his magnanimity so far as not to reply.</p>
			<p>“Yes,” he said; “if I am wasted reading prayers for my old men, what are you, who come to agitate for my abolition? <em>I</em> think, too, almost anything would be better than to encourage the ignorant to make themselves judges of public institutions, which the wisest even find too delicate to meddle with. The digging and the ploughing might be a good thing for more than me.”</p>
			<p>“I don’t say otherwise,” said the young Dissenter, following into the old fifteenth-century chapel, small but perfect, the young priest of the place. They stood together for a moment under the vaulted roof, both young, in the glory of their days, both with vague noble meanings in them, which they knew so poorly how to carry out. They meant everything that was fine and great, these two young men, standing upon the threshold of their life, knowing little more than that they were fiercely opposed to each other, and meant to reform the world each in his own way; one by careful services and visitings of the poor, the other by the Liberation Society and overthrow of the State Church; both foolish, wrong and right, to the utmost bounds of human possibility. How different they felt themselves standing there, and yet how much at one they were without knowing it! Northcote had sufficient knowledge to admire the perfect old building. He followed his guide with a certain humility through the details, which Reginald had already learned by heart.</p>
			<p>“There is nothing so perfect, so beautiful, so real nowadays,” said the young Churchman, with a natural expansion of mind over the beauty to which he had fallen heir. It seemed to him, as he looked up at the tall windows with their graceful tracery, that he was the representative of all who had worked out their belief in God within these beautiful walls, and of all the perpetual worshippers who had knelt among the old brasses of the early founders upon the worn floor. The other stood beside him with a half envy in his mind. The Dissenter did not feel himself the heir of those centuries in the same unhesitating way. He tried to feel that he was the heir of something better and more spiritual, yet felt a not ungenerous grudge that he could not share the other kinship too.</p>
			<p>“It is very beautiful and noble,” he said. “I should like to feel for it as you do; but what I should like still better would be to have the same clear certainty of faith, the same conviction that what they were doing was the only right thing to do which made both building and prayer so unfaltering in those days. We can’t be so sure even of the span of an arch now.”</p>
			<p>“No⁠—nor can you be content with the old span, even though it is clearly the best by all rules,” said Reginald. The other smiled; he was the most speculative of the two, being perhaps the most thoughtful; and he had no fifteenth-century chapel to charm, nor old foundation to give him an anchor. He smiled, but there was a little envy in his mind. Even to have one’s life set out before one within clear lines like this, would not that be something? If it had but been possible, no doubt saying prayers for the world, even with no better than the old men of the College to say amen, had something more beautiful in it than tours of agitation for the Liberation Society; but Northcote knew that for him it was not possible, any more than was the tonsure of Reginald’s predecessor, who had said mass when first those pinnacles were reared towards heaven. After he had smiled he sighed, for the old faith was more lovely than all the new agitations; he felt a little ashamed of the Liberation Society, so long as he stood under that groined and glorious roof.</p>
			<p>“May!” said someone, coming in suddenly. “I want you to go to the hospital for me. I am obliged to go off to town on urgent business⁠—convocation work; and I must get a lawyer’s opinion about the reredos question; there is not a moment to lose. Go and see the people in the pulmonary ward, there’s a good fellow; and there are two or three bad accidents; and that old woman who is ill in Brown’s cottage, you saw her the other day; and the Simmonds in Back Grove Street. I should have had a day’s work well cut out, if I had not had this summons to town; but the reredos question is of the first importance, you know.”</p>
			<p>“I’ll go,” said Reginald. There is nothing more effectual in showing us the weakness of any habitual fallacy or assumption than to hear it sympathetically, through the ears, as it were, of a sceptic. Reginald, seeing Northcote’s keen eyes gleam at the sound of the Rector’s voice, instinctively fell into sympathy with him, and heard the speech through him; and though he himself felt the importance of the reredos, yet he saw in a moment how such a question would take shape in the opinion of the young Dissenter, in whom he clearly saw certain resemblances to himself. Therefore he assented very briefly, taking out his notebook to put down the special cases of which the Rector told him. They had a confidential conversation in a corner, during which the newcomer contemplated the figure of Northcote in his strange semi-clerical garments with some amaze. “Who is your friend?” he said abruptly, for he was a rapid man, losing no time about anything.</p>
			<p>“It is not my friend at all; it is my enemy who denounced me at the Dissenters’ meeting.”</p>
			<p>“Pah!” cried the Rector, curling up his nostrils, as if some disagreeable smell had reached him. “A Dissenter here! I should not have expected it from you, May.”</p>
			<p>“Nor I either,” said Reginald; but his colour rose. He was not disposed to be rebuked by any rector in Carlingford or the world.</p>
			<p>“Are you his curate,” said Northcote, “that he orders you about as if you were bound to do his bidding? I hope, for your own sake, it is not so.”</p>
			<p>Now it was Reginald’s turn to smile. He was young, and liked a bit of grandiloquence as well as another.</p>
			<p>“Since I have been here,” he said, “in this sinecure, as you call it⁠—and such it almost is⁠—I have been everybody’s curate. If the others have too much work, and I too little, my duty is clear, don’t you think?”</p>
			<p>Northcote made no reply. Had he known what was about to be said to him, he might have stirred up his faculties to say something; but he had not an idea that Reginald would answer him like this, and it took him aback. He was too honest himself not to be worsted by such a speech. He bowed his head with genuine respect. The apology of the Churchman whom he had assaulted, filled him with a kind of reverential confusion; he could make no reply in words. And need it be said that Reginald’s heart too melted altogether when he saw how he had confounded his adversary? That silent assent more than made up for the noisy onslaught. That he should have thus overcome Northcote made Northcote appear his friend. He was pleased and satisfied beyond the reach of words.</p>
			<p>“Will you come to the hospital with me?” he said; and they walked out together, the young Dissenter saying very little, doing what he could to arrange those new lights which had suddenly flashed upon his favourite subject, and feeling that he had lost his landmarks, and was confused in his path. When the logic is taken out of all that a man is doing, what is to become of him? This was what he felt; an ideal person in Reginald’s place could not have made a better answer. Suddenly somehow, by a strange law of association, there came into his mind the innocent talk he had overheard between the two girls who were, he was aware, May’s sisters. A certain romantic curiosity about the family came into his mind. Certainly they could not be an ordinary family like others. There must be something in their constitution to account for this sudden downfall, which he had encountered in the midst of all his theories. The Mays must be people of a different strain from others; a peculiar race, to whom great thoughts were familiar; he could not believe that there was anything common or ordinary in their blood. He went out in silence, with the holder of the sinecure which he had so denounced, but which now seemed to him to be held after a divine fashion, in a way which common men had no idea of. Very little could he say, and that of the most commonplace kind. He walked quite respectfully by the young clergyman’s side along the crowded High Street, though without any intention of going to the hospital, or of actually witnessing the kind of work undertaken by his new friend. Northcote himself had no turn that way. To go and minister at a sickbed had never been his custom; he did not understand how to do it; and though he had a kind of sense that it was the right thing to do, and that if anyone demanded such a service of him he would be obliged to render it, he was all in the dark as to how he could get through so painful an office; whereas May went to it without fear, thinking of it only as the most natural thing in the world. Perhaps, it is possible, Northcote’s ministrations, had he been fully roused, would have been, in mere consequence of the reluctance of his mind, to undertake them, more real and impressive than those which Reginald went to discharge as a daily though serious duty; but in any case it was the Churchman whose mode was the more practical, the more useful. They had not gone far together, when they met the Rector hurrying to the railway; he cast a frowning, dissatisfied look at Northcote, and caught Reginald by the arm, drawing him aside.</p>
			<p>“Don’t be seen walking about with that fellow,” he said; “it will injure you in people’s minds. What have you to do with a Dissenter⁠—a demagogue? Your father would not like it any more than I do. Get rid of him, May.”</p>
			<p>“I am sorry to displease either you or my father,” said Reginald stiffly; “but, pardon me, in this respect I must judge for myself.”</p>
			<p>“Don’t be pigheaded,” said the spiritual ruler of Carlingford; but he had to rush off for his train, and had no time to say more. He left Reginald hot and angry, doubly disposed, as was natural, to march Northcote over all the town, and show his intimacy with him. Get rid of an acquaintance whom he chose to extend his countenance to, to please the Rector! For a man so young as Reginald May, and so lately made independent, such an act of subserviency was impossible indeed.</p>
			<p>Before they entered the hospital, however, another encounter happened of a very different character. Strolling along in the centre of the pavement, endeavouring after the almost impossible combination of a yawn and a cigar, they perceived a large figure in a very long greatcoat, and with an aspect of languor and ennui which was unmistakable a hundred yards off. This apparition called a sudden exclamation from Northcote.</p>
			<p>“If it was possible,” he said, “I should imagine I knew that man. Are there two like him? but I can’t fancy what he can be doing here.”</p>
			<p>“<em>That</em> fellow!” said Reginald. “It’s a pity if there are two like him. I can’t tell you what a nuisance he is to me. His name is Copperhead; he’s my father’s pupil.”</p>
			<p>“Then it <em>is</em> Copperhead! I thought there could not be another. He gives a sort of odd familiar aspect to the place all at once.”</p>
			<p>“Then you are a friend of his!” said Reginald, with a groan. “Pardon the natural feelings of a man whose father has suddenly chosen to become a coach. I hate it, and my dislike to the thing is reflected on the person of the pupil. I suppose that’s what my antipathy means.”</p>
			<p>“He does not merit antipathy. He is a bore, but there is no harm in him. Ah! he is quickening his pace; I am afraid he has seen us; and anybody he knows will be a godsend to him, I suppose.”</p>
			<p>“I am off,” said Reginald; “you will come again? that is,” he added, with winning politeness, “I shall come and seek you out. We are each the moral Antipodes of the other, Miss Beecham says⁠—from which she argues that we should be acquainted and learn the meaning of our differences.”</p>
			<p>“I am much obliged to Miss Beecham.”</p>
			<p>“Why, Northcote!” said Clarence Copperhead, bearing down upon them in his big grey Ulster, like a ship in full sail. “Morning, May; who’d have thought to see you here. Oh, don’t turn on my account! I’m only taking a walk; it don’t matter which way I go.”</p>
			<p>“I am very much hurried. I was just about to hasten off to an appointment. Goodbye, Northcote,” said Reginald. “We shall meet again soon, I hope.”</p>
			<p>“By Jove! this is a surprise,” said Clarence; “to see you here, where I should as soon have thought of looking for <abbr>St.</abbr> Paul’s; and to find you walking about cheek by jowl with that muff, young May, who couldn’t be civil, I think, if he were to try. What is the meaning of it? I suppose you’re just as much startled to see me. I’m with a coach; clever, and a good scholar and a good family, and all that; father to that young sprig: so there ain’t any mystery about me. What’s brought you here?”</p>
			<p>“Work,” said Northcote, curtly. He did not feel disposed to enter into any kind of explanation.</p>
			<p>“Oh, work! Now I do wonder that a fellow like you, with plenty of money in your pocket, should go in for work as you do. What’s the good of it? and in the Dissenting parson line of all things in the world! When a fellow has nothing, you can understand it; he must get his grub somehow. That’s what people think of you, of course. Me, I don’t do anything, and everybody knows I’m a catch, and all that sort of thing. Now I don’t say (for I don’t know) if your governor has as much to leave behind him as mine⁠—But halt a bit! You walk as if we were going in for athletics, and doing a two mile.”</p>
			<p>“I’m sorry to see you so easily blown,” said Northcote, not displeased in his turn to say something unpleasant. “What is it? or are you only out of training?”</p>
			<p>“That’s it,” said Clarence, with a gasp. “I’m awfully out of training, and that’s the fact. We do, perhaps, live too well in Portland Place; but look here⁠—about what we were saying⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Do you live with the Mays?”</p>
			<p>“Worse luck! It’s what you call plain cooking; and bless us all, dinner in the middle of the day, and the children at table. But I’ve put a stop to that; and old May ain’t a bad old fellow⁠—don’t bother me with work more than I like, and none of your high mightiness, like that fellow. I’ll tell you what, Northcote, you must come and see me. I haven’t got a sitting-room of my own, which is a shame, but I have the use of their rooms as much as I like. The sisters go flying away like a flock of pigeons. I’ll tell you what, I’ll have you asked to dinner. Capital fun it will be. A High Church parson cheek by jowl with a red-hot Dissenter, and compelled to be civil. By Jove! won’t it be a joke?”</p>
			<p>“It is not a joke that either of us will enjoy.”</p>
			<p>“Never mind, <em>I’ll</em> enjoy it, by Jove!” said Copperhead. “He daren’t say no. I’d give sixpence just to see you together, and the Bashaw of two tails⁠—the young fellow. They shall have a party; leave it all to me.”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
