<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XII</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-12" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XII</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">Grange Lane</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p><abbr>Mr.</abbr> and <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Tozer had retired from business several years before. They had given up the shop with its long established connection, and all its advantages, to Tom, their son, finding themselves to have enough to live upon in ease, and indeed luxury; and though <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Tozer found the house in Grange Lane shut in by the garden walls to be much duller than her rooms over the shop in High Street, where she saw everything that was going on, yet the increase in gentility was unquestionable. The house which they were fortunate enough to secure in this desirable locality had been once in the occupation of Lady Weston, and there was accordingly an aroma of high life about it, although somebody less important had lived in it in the mean time, and it had fallen into a state of considerable dilapidation, which naturally made it cheaper. <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Tozer had solidly repaired all that was necessary for comfort, but he had not done anything in those external points of paint and decoration, which tells so much in the aspect of a house. Lady Weston’s taste had been florid, and the walls continued as she had left them, painted and papered with faded wreaths, which were apt to look dissipated, as they ought to have been refreshed and renewed years before. But outside, where the wreaths do not fade, there was a delightful garden charmingly laid out, in which Lady Weston had once held her garden parties, and where the crocuses and other spring bulbs, which had been put in with a lavish hand, during Lady Weston’s extravagant reign, had already begun to blow. The violets were peeping out from among their leaves on a sheltered bank, and Christmas roses, overblown, making a great show with their great white stars, in a corner. Tozer himself soon took a great interest in this little domain out of doors, and was for ever pottering about the flowers, obeying, with the servility of ignorance, the gardener’s injunctions. <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Tozer, however, who was in weak health, and consequently permitted to be somewhat cross and contradictory, regretted the High Street.</p>
			<p>“Talk of a garden,” she said, “a thing as never changes except according to the seasons! Up in the town there was never a day the same, something always happening⁠—Soldiers marching through, or Punch and Judy, or a row at the least. It is the cheerfullest place in the whole world, I do believe; shut up here may do for the gentry, but I likes the streets and what’s going on. You may call me vulgar if you please, but so I do.”</p>
			<p>Tozer prudently said nothing to such outbursts except a soothing exhortation to wait till summer, when she would find the benefit of the fresh air, not to speak of the early vegetables; and he himself found the garden an unspeakable resource. At first, indeed, he would stroll up to the shop of a morning, especially if any new consignment of first-rate York hams, or cheese, was coming in, which he loved to turn over and test by smell and touch; but by and by the ancient butterman made a discovery, such as we are all apt to make when we get old and step out of the high road of life. He found out that his son did not appreciate his advice, and that <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Tom cared still less for his frequent appearances. Indeed, he himself once saw her bounce out of the shop as he entered, exclaiming audibly, “Here’s that fussy old man again.” Tozer was an old man, it is true, but nobody (under eighty) cares to have the epithet flung in his teeth; and to be in the way is always unpleasant. He had self-command enough to say nothing about it, except in a very modified shape to his wife, who was ready enough to believe anything unpleasant about <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Tom; but he took to gardening with ardour from that day; and learned all about the succession of the flowers, and how long one set lasted, and which kind should be put into the ground next. He would even take off his coat and do a tolerable day’s work under the gardener’s direction, to the great advantage of his health and temper, while <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Tozer grumbled upstairs. She was getting more and more helpless about the house, unable to see after the stout maid-of-all-work, who in her turn grumbled much at the large house, for which one maid was not enough. Many altercations took place in consequence between the mistress and servant.</p>
			<p>“The ungrateful hussy hasn’t even as many rooms to do as she had in the High Street, when there was the ’prentices’ beds to make,” <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Tozer said indignantly to her husband; but Jane on her side pointed to the length of passage, the stairs, the dining and drawing-rooms, where there had once only been a parlour.</p>
			<p>“Cook and ’ousemaid’s little enough,” said Jane; “there did ought to be a man in this kind of ’ouse; but as there’s only two in family, shouldn’t say nothing if I had a girl under me.”</p>
			<p>Things were gravitating towards this girl at the time of Phœbe’s arrival; but nothing had as yet been finally decided upon. Jane, however, had bestirred herself to get the young lady’s room ready with something like alacrity. A young person coming to the house promised a little movement and change, which was always something, and Jane had no doubt that Phœbe would be on her side in respect to the “girl.” “She’ll want waiting upon, and there’ll always be sending of errands,” Jane said to herself. She knew by experience “what young ’uns is in a house.”</p>
			<p>There was something, perhaps, in all the preparations for her departure which had thrown dust in Phœbe Beecham’s eyes. She had been too sharp-sighted not to see into her mother’s qualms and hesitations about her visit to Carlingford, and the repeated warnings of both parents as to the “difference from what she had been accustomed to;” and she thought she had fully prepared herself for what she was to encounter. But probably the elaborate outfit provided by her mother and the importance attached to her journey had to some degree obliterated this impression, for it is certain that when Phœbe saw an old man in a shabby coat, with a wisp of a large white neckcloth round his throat, watching anxiously for the arrival of the train as it came up, she sustained a shock which she had not anticipated. It was about five years since she had seen her grandfather, an interval due to hazard rather than purpose, though, on the whole, the elder Beechams had not been sorry to keep their parents and their children apart. Phœbe, however, knew her grandfather perfectly well as soon as she saw him, though he had not perceived her, and was wandering anxiously up and down in search of her. She held back in her corner for the moment, to overcome the shock. Yes, there could be no doubt about it; there he was, he whom she was going to visit, under whose auspices she was about to appear in Carlingford. He was not even like an old Dissenting minister, which had been her childish notion of him. He looked neither more nor less than what he was, an old shopkeeper, very decent and respectable, but a little shabby and greasy, like the men whose weekly bills she had been accustomed to pay for her mother. She felt an instant conviction that he would call her “Ma’am,” if she went up to him, and think her one of the quality. Poor Phœbe! she sat back in her corner and gave a gasp of horror and dismay, but having done this, she was herself again. She gave herself a shake, like one who is about to take a plunge, rose lightly to her feet, took up her bag, and stepped out of the carriage, just as <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Tozer strolled anxiously past for the third time.</p>
			<p>“Grandpapa!” she cried with a smile. <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Tozer was almost as much taken aback by this apparition as Phœbe herself had been. He knew that his daughter had made great strides in social elevation, and that her children, when he had seen them last, had been quite like “gentlefolk’s children;” but to see this young princess step forth graciously out of a first-class carriage, and address him as “grandpapa,” took away his breath.</p>
			<p>“Why⁠—why⁠—why, Miss! you ain’t little Phœbe?” he cried, scared out of his seven senses, as he afterwards said.</p>
			<p>“Yes, indeed, I am little Phœbe,” she said, coming up and kissing him dutifully. She was half-disgusted, he half-frightened; but yet it was right, and Phœbe did it. “I have only two boxes and a bag,” she said, “besides my dressing-case. If you will get a cab, grandpapa, I will go and see after the luggage.”</p>
			<p>Old Tozer thought he could have carried the bag himself, and left the boxes to follow; but he succumbed humbly and obeyed.</p>
			<p>“She don’t seem a bit proud,” he said to himself; “but, good Lord, what’ll she ever say to my old woman?”</p>
			<p>He saw the contrast very clearly between his wife and this splendid grandchild. It did not strike him so much in his own case.</p>
			<p>“How is grandmamma?” said Phœbe, blandly; “better, I hope? Mamma was so sorry not to come herself; but you know, of course, she has a great many things to do. People in town are obliged to keep up certain appearances. You are a great deal better off in the country, grandpapa.”</p>
			<p>“Lord bless you, my dear, do you call Carlingford the country?” said <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Tozer. “That is all you know about it. Your granny and I are humble folks, but the new minister at Salem is one as keeps up appearances with the best. Your mother was always inclined for that. I hope she has not brought you up too fine for the likes of us.”</p>
			<p>“I hope not, indeed,” said Phœbe. “No fear of my being too fine for my duty, grandpapa. Do you live down this nice road? How pretty it is! how delightful these gardens must be in summer. I beg your pardon for calling it the country. It is so quiet and so nice, it seems the country to me.”</p>
			<p>“Ah, to be sure; brought up in the London smoke,” said <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Tozer. “I don’t suppose, now, you see a bit of green from year’s end to year’s end? Very bad for the ’ealth, that is; but I can’t say you look poorly on it. Your colour’s fresh, so was your mother’s before you. To be sure, she wasn’t cooped up like you.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, we do get a little fresh air sometimes⁠—in the parks, for instance,” said Phœbe. She was somewhat piqued by the idea that she was supposed to live in London smoke.</p>
			<p>“Ah, the parks are always something; but I suppose it takes you a day’s journey to get at them,” said <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Tozer, shaking his head. “You mustn’t mind your grandmother’s temper just at first, my dear. She’s old, poor soul, and she ain’t well, and she’s sometimes cross above a bit. But she’ll be that proud of you, she won’t know if she’s on her ’eels or ’er ’ead; and as for a cross word now and again, I hope as you won’t mind⁠—”</p>
			<p>“I shan’t mind anything, grandpapa,” said Phœbe, sweetly, “so long as I can be of use.”</p>
			<p>And these were, indeed, the dutiful sentiments with which she made her entry upon this passage in her life, not minding anything but to be of use. The first glimpse of old Tozer, indeed, made it quite evident to Phœbe that nothing but duty could be within her reach. Pleasure, friends, society, the thought of all such delights must be abandoned. And as for Clarence Copperhead and the Miss Dorsets, the notion of meeting or receiving them was too absurd. But Duty remained, and Phœbe felt herself capable of the sacrifice demanded from her. That confidence in herself which we have already indicated as a marked feature in her character, gave her the consoling certainty that she could not suffer from association with her humble relations. Whosoever saw her must do her justice, and that serene conviction preserved her from all the throes of uneasy pride which afflict inferior minds in similar circumstances. She had no wish to exhibit her grandfather and grandmother in their lowliness, nor to be ostentatious of her homely origin, as some people are in the very soreness of wounded pride; but if hazard produced the butterman in the midst of the finest of her acquaintances, Phœbe would still have been perfectly at her ease. She would be herself, whatever happened.</p>
			<p>In the mean time, however, it was apparent that Duty was what she had to look to; Duty, and that alone. She had come here, not to amuse herself, not to please herself, but to do her duty; and having thus concluded upon her object, she felt comparatively happy, and at her ease.</p>
			<p><abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Tozer had put on her best cap, which was a very gorgeous creation. She had dressed herself as if for a party, with a large brooch, enclosing a curl of various coloured hair cut from the heads of her children in early life, which fastened a large worked collar over a dress of copper-coloured silk, and she rustled and shook a good deal as she came downstairs into the garden to meet her grandchild, with some excitement and sense of the “difference” which could not but be felt on one side as well as on the other. She, too, was somewhat frightened by the appearance of the young lady, who was her Phœbe’s child, yet was so unlike any other scion of the Tozer race; and felt greatly disposed to curtsey and say “Ma’am” to her.</p>
			<p>“You’ve grown a deal and changed a deal since I saw you last,” she said, restraining this impression, and receiving Phœbe’s kiss with gratified, yet awe-struck feeling; and then her respectful alarm getting too much for her, she added, faltering, “You’ll find us but humble folks; perhaps not altogether what you’ve been used to⁠—”</p>
			<p>Phœbe did not think it expedient to make any reply to this outburst of humility.</p>
			<p>“Grandmamma, I am afraid you have over-exerted yourself, coming downstairs to meet me,” she said, taking the old lady’s hand, and drawing it within her arm. “Yes, I have grown; I am tall enough to be of some use; but you must not treat me as if I were a stranger. No, no; never mind my room. I am not tired; the journey is nothing. Let me take you back to your chair and make you comfortable. I feel myself quite at home already. The only odd thing is that I have never been here before.”</p>
			<p>“Ah, my dear, your mother thought too much of you to send you to the likes of us; that’s the secret of it. She was always fond of fine folks, was my Phœbe; and I don’t blame her, bringing you up quite the lady as she’s done.”</p>
			<p>“You must not find fault with mamma,” said Phœbe, smiling. “What a nice cozy room! This is the dining-room, I suppose; and here is your cushion, and your footstool at this nice window. How pleasant it is, with the crocuses in all the borders already! I am not at all tired; but I am sure it must be tea-time, and I should so like a cup of tea.”</p>
			<p>“We thought,” said <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Tozer, “as perhaps you mightn’t be used to tea at this time of day.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, it is the right time; it is the fashionable hour,” said Phœbe; “everybody has tea at five. I will run upstairs first, and take off my hat, and make myself tidy. Jane⁠—is that her name?⁠—don’t trouble, grandmamma; Jane will show me the way.”</p>
			<p>“Well?” said <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Tozer to <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Tozer, as Phœbe disappeared. The two old people looked at each other with a little awe; but she, as was her nature, took the most depressing view. She shook her head.</p>
			<p>“She is a deal too fine for us, Tozer,” she said. “She’ll never make herself ’appy in our quiet way. Phœbe’s been and brought her up quite the lady. It ain’t as her dress is much matter. I’d have given her a silk myself, and never thought of it twice; and something lively like for a young person, ’stead of that gray stuff, as her mother might wear. But all the same, she ain’t one of our sort. She’ll never make herself ’appy with you and me.”</p>
			<p>“Well,” said Tozer, who was more cheerful, “she ain’t proud, not a bit; and as for manners, you don’t pay no more for manners. She came up and give me a kiss in the station, as affectionate as possible. All I can say for her is as she ain’t proud.”</p>
			<p><abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Tozer shook her head; but even while she did so, pleasanter dreams stole into her soul.</p>
			<p>“I hope I’ll be well enough to get to chapel on Sunday,” she said, “just to see the folk’s looks. The minister needn’t expect much attention to his sermon. ‘There’s Phœbe Tozer’s daughter!’ they’ll all be saying, and a-staring, and a-whispering. It ain’t often as anything like her is seen in chapel, that’s a fact,” said the old lady, warming into the exultation of natural pride.</p>
			<p>Phœbe, it must be allowed, had a good cry when she got within the shelter of her own room, which had been very carefully prepared for her, with everything that was necessary for comfort, according to her grandmother’s standard; but where the “tent” bed hung with old-fashioned red and brown chintz, and the moreen curtains drooping over the window, and the gigantic flowers on the carpet, made Phœbe’s soul sick within her. Notwithstanding all her courage, her heart sank. She had expected “a difference,” but she had not looked for her grandfather’s greasy coat and wisp of neckcloth, or her grandmother’s amazing cap, or the grammatical peculiarities in which both indulged. She had a good hot fit of crying, and for the moment felt so discouraged and depressed, that the only impulse in her mind was to run away. But her temperament did not favour panics, and giving in was not in her. If somebody must do it, why should not she do it? she said to herself. How many times had she heard in sermons and otherwise that no one ought to look for the sweet without the bitter, and that duty should never be avoided or refused because it is unpleasant? Now was the time to put her principles to the test; and the tears relieved her, and gave her something of the feeling of a martyr, which is always consolatory and sweet; so she dried her eyes, and bathed her face, and went downstairs cheerful and smiling, resolved that, at all costs, her duty should be done, however disagreeable it might be. What a good thing the new fashion of five o’clock tea is for people who have connections in an inferior path of life who make tea a meal, and don’t dine, or dine in the middle of the day! This was the thought that passed through Phœbe’s mind as she went into the dining-room, and found the table covered, not to say groaning under good things. She took her place at it, and poured out tea for the old people, and cut bread-and-butter with the most gracious philosophy. Duchesses did the same every day; the tea-table had renewed its ancient sway, even in fashionable life. It cannot be told what a help and refreshment this thought was to Phœbe’s courageous heart.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
