<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>VII: Shopping</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-7" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VII</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">Shopping</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>Next day a telegram came from Southampton, announcing the arrival of the little Dorsets, which Ursula rejoiced over with the rest, yet was dreadfully sorry for in her heart. “Now we shall be able to get home,” the sisters said, and she did her best to smile; but to say that she was glad to leave London, with all its delights, the bright streets and the shopwindows, and the theatres, and the excitement of being “on a visit,” would be a great deal more than the truth. She was glad, sympathetically, and to please the others; but for herself, her heart fell. It was still winter, and winter is not lively in Carlingford; and there was a great deal to do at home, and many things “to put up with.” To be sure, that was her duty, this was only her pleasure; but at twenty, pleasure is so much more pleasant than duty. Ursula did not at all rebel, nor did she make painful contrasts in her mind, as so many young people do; asking why are others so well off, and I so badly off? but her heart sank. All the mendings, all the keepings in order, the dinners to be invented with a due regard for the butcher’s bill, the tradespeople to be kept in good humour, the servant to be managed, and papa, who was more difficult than the servant, and more troublesome than the children! If Ursula sighed over the prospect, I don’t think the severest of recording angels would put a very bad mark against her. She had been free of all this for ten wonderful days. No torn frocks, no unpleasant baker, no hole in the carpet, no spoiled mutton-chops, had disturbed her repose. All these troubles, no doubt, were going on as usual at home, and Janey and the maid were struggling with them as best they could. Had Ursula been very high-minded and given up to her duty, no doubt she would have been too much moved by the thought of what her young sister might be enduring in her absence, to get the good of her holiday; but I fear this was not how she felt it. Janey, no doubt, would get through somehow; and it was very sweet to escape for ever so short a time, and have a real rest. Therefore, it must be allowed that, when Ursula went to her bedroom after this news arrived, she relieved herself by “a good cry.” Two or three days longer, what difference could that have made to those children? But after her headache was relieved in this way, the cloud dispersed a little. The thought of all she had to tell Janey consoled her. She counted over the spare contents of her purse, and calculated that, after all, she would have enough to buy the necktie; and she had all her presents to exhibit; the ball-dress, that unhoped-for acquisition; the Venetian beads; the bracelet, “Which is really good⁠—<em>good</em> gold; fancy!” said Ursula to herself, weighing it in her hand. How Janey would be interested, how she would be dazzled! There was a great deal of consolation in this thought. In the afternoon her cousins took her out “shopping,” an occupation which all young girls and women like. They bought a great many things “for the spring,” and “for the children,” while Ursula looked on with admiration. To be able to buy things three months in advance, three months before they could possibly be wanted, what luxury! and yet the Dorsets were not rich, or so, at least, people said.</p>
			<p>“Now, Ursula,” said Cousin Anne, “we have made all our purchases. Suppose you choose frocks for the children at home.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, me?” cried poor Ursula, forgetting grammar. She blushed very red, and looked, not without indignation, into Anne Dorset’s mild eyes. “You know I have not any money; you know we can’t afford it!” she cried, with starting tears.</p>
			<p>“But I can,” said Cousin Anne; “at least, I have some money just now. Money always goes, whether one buys things or not,” she added, with a little sigh. “It runs through one’s fingers. When one has something to show for it, that is always a satisfaction. Come, this would be pretty for little Amy; but it is you who must choose.”</p>
			<p>“But, Cousin Anne! Dresses! If it was a necktie or a ribbon; but frocks⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Frocks would be most useful, wouldn’t they? One for Amy, and one for Janey. I suppose Robin does not wear frocks now?”</p>
			<p>“He has been in knickerbockers these two years,” said Ursula, half proud, half sorry; “and the worst of it is, they can’t be made at home. Papa says, boys’ clothes made at home are always spoiled, and the tailor is so dear. Oh, Cousin Anne, are you really, really going to be so very, very good⁠—!”</p>
			<p><abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Copperhead came into the shop while they were choosing. Poor little woman! she who trembled so in her own house, how everybody bowed down before her at <abbr>Messrs.</abbr> Margrove and Snelcher’s! It was all she could do to extricate herself from a crowd of anxious officials, all eager to supply her with everything that heart could desire, when she saw the little party. She came up to them, almost running in her eagerness, her small pale face flushed, and leaned on Anne Dorset’s chair and whispered to her.</p>
			<p>“You will not be angry, dear kind Anne. You are always so good to everybody. Oh, forgive me! forgive me!”</p>
			<p>Ursula could not help hearing what she said.</p>
			<p>“There is nothing to forgive <em>you</em>, <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Copperhead.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, dear Anne! But I am more than myself, you know! He does not mean it; he never was brought up to know better. He thinks that is how people behave⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Please don’t say anything, dear <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Copperhead.”</p>
			<p>“Not if you will forgive⁠—not if you will promise to forgive. Poor Clarence is heartbroken!” cried the poor woman. “He is so frightened for what you must think.”</p>
			<p>“We don’t think anything,” said Sophy, breaking in; “it is one of our good qualities as a family that we never think. Come and help us; we are choosing frocks for Ursula’s sisters. She has two. What are their ages, Ursula? You, who live in town, and know the fashions, come and help us to choose.”</p>
			<p>And how respectful all the shopmen grew when the nameless country party was joined by the great <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Copperhead⁠—or rather the great <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Copperhead’s wife, at whose command was unlimited credit, and all the contents of the shop if she chose. One hurried forward to give her a chair, and quite a grand personage, a “head man,” came from another counter to take the charge of pleasing such a customer. Ursula could not but look upon the whole transaction with awe. <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Copperhead was a very humble, timid woman, and <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Copperhead was not nice; but it was something to command the reverence of all the people in such a grand shop⁠—a shop which Ursula by herself would scarcely have ventured to enter, and in which she felt timid and overwhelmed, saying, “Sir” to the gentleman who was so good as to ask what she wanted. But here <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Copperhead was not afraid. She gave herself up with her whole heart to the delightful perplexity of choice, and when that matter was settled, looked round with searching eyes.</p>
			<p>“Don’t they want something else?” she said, “it is so long since I have bought any children’s things. It reminds me of the days when Clarence was little, when I took such pride in his dress. Come with me into the cloak room, my dear, I am sure they must want jackets or something.”</p>
			<p>Ursula resisted with pitiful looks at Cousin Anne, and Sophy whispered into <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Copperhead’s ear an explanation, which, instead of quenching her ardour, brought it up instantly to boiling point. Her pale little languid countenance glowed and shone. She took both Ursula’s hands in hers, half smiling, half crying.</p>
			<p>“Oh, my dear,” she said, “you can give me such a pleasure, if you will! You know we are connections, almost relations. Let me send them something. Dear children, I wish I could see them. Come and look at the little jackets and mantles. I have often thought, if Providence had given me a little girl, what pleasure I should have had in dressing her. Hats too! I am sure they must want hats. Come, my dear, come and look at them.” Ursula did not know what to do. A little pride and a great deal of shyness kept her back, but <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Copperhead was too much in earnest to be crossed. She bought a couple of very smart little upper garments for Amy and Janey, and then, clandestinely taking no one into her confidence, for Ursula herself, and gave secret orders to have them all sent to the Dorsets’ lodgings that night. She was quite transformed so long as this transaction lasted. Her languid countenance grew bright, her pale eyes lighted up.</p>
			<p>“You have given me such a pleasure,” she said, holding Ursula’s hands, and standing up on tiptoe to kiss her. “I am so much obliged to you. I could almost think that Clarence was little again, or that he had got a little sister, which was always my heart’s desire. Ah, well! often, often, it seems better for us not to have our heart’s desire, my dear; at least I suppose that is how it must be.”</p>
			<p>“I do not know how to thank you,” said Ursula, “you have been so kind⁠—so very kind.”</p>
			<p>“I have been kind to myself,” said <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Copperhead, “I have so enjoyed it; and, my dear,” she added, with some solemnity, still holding Ursula by the hands, “promise you will do me one favour more. It will be such a favour. Whenever you want anything for yourself or your sister will you write to me? I am always in London except in autumn, and I should so like to do your commissions. People who live in London know how to get bargains, my dear. You must promise to let me do them for you. It will make me so happy. Promise!” cried the little woman, quite bright in her excitement. Ursula looked at the two others who were looking on, and did not know what to say.</p>
			<p>“She thinks you are too expensive an agent for her,” said Sophy Dorset, “and I think so too.”</p>
			<p><abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Copperhead’s face faded out of its pleasant glow.</p>
			<p>“There are two things I have a great deal too much of,” she said, “money and time. I am never so happy as when I am buying things for children, and I can see that she will trust me⁠—won’t you, my dear? Must we say goodbye now? Couldn’t I take you anywhere? Look at that big carriage, all for me alone, a little light woman. Let me take you somewhere. No! Ah, Cousin Anne, you have not forgiven us for all you said.”</p>
			<p>“We have some other things to do,” said Anne, drawing back. As for Ursula, she would not at all have objected to the splendour of the carriage. And her heart was melted by the lonely little woman’s pathetic looks. But the other ladies stood out. They stood by while poor <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Copperhead got into the carriage and drove off, her pale reproachful little face looking at them wistfully from the window. It was afternoon by this time, getting dark, and it was a tolerably long walk along the lighted, crowded streets.</p>
			<p>“Cousin Anne, I am afraid we have hurt her feelings,” said Ursula; “why wouldn’t you go?”</p>
			<p>“Go!” cried mild Anne Dorset; “get into that man’s carriage after yesterday? Not for the world! I can put up with a great deal, but I can’t go so far as that.”</p>
			<p>“She never did any harm,” said Sophy, “poor little soul! You see now, Ursula, don’t you, how fine it is to marry a rich man, and have everything that your heart can desire?”</p>
			<p>Ursula looked at her wondering. To tell the truth, <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Copperhead’s eagerness to buy everything she could think of for the unknown children at Carlingford, the manner with which she was regarded in the great shop, her lavish liberality, her beautiful carriage, and all the fine things about her, had brought Ursula to this very thought, that it was extremely fine to marry a rich man. Sophy’s irony was lost upon her simple-minded cousin, and so indeed was <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Copperhead’s pathos. That she was very kind, and that she was not very happy, were both apparent, but Ursula did not connect the unhappiness with the fact that she was a rich man’s wife. <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Copperhead certainly was not very <em>nice</em>; but when people got so old as that, they never were very happy, Ursula thought, and what had the money to do with it? She looked confused and puzzled at Sophy, wondering what she meant. Yes, indeed, to marry a rich man, to be able to buy presents for everyone, to make the children at home perfectly happy without any trouble to one’s self! Could anyone doubt that it was very nice? Alas! Ursula did not think it at all likely that this would ever be in her power.</p>
			<p>“Poor <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Copperhead!” said Anne, as they made their way along the crowded street, where it was difficult for them to walk together, much less to maintain any conversation. And presently Ursula, keeping as close as possible to her cousin’s side, but compelled to make way continually for other passersby, lost herself in a maze of fancies, to which the misty afternoon atmosphere, and the twinkling lights, and the quickly passing crowds lent a confused but not unpleasing background. She was glad that the noise made all talk impossible, and that she could dream on quietly as they glided and pressed their way through the current of people in Oxford Street and Regent Street, as undisturbed as if she had been shut up in her own room⁠—nay, more so⁠—for the external sights and sounds which flitted vaguely by her, disguised those dreams even from herself. <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Copperhead had once been poorer than she was, a poor little governess. What if somewhere about, in some beautiful house, with just such a carriage at the door, a beautiful young hero should be waiting who would give all those dazzling delights to Ursula? Then what frocks she would buy, what toys, what ornaments! She would not stop at the girls, but drive to the best tailor’s boldly, and bid him send down someone to take Johnnie’s measure, and Robin’s, and even Reginald’s; and then she would go to the toyshop, and to the bookseller, and I can’t tell where besides; and finally drive down in the fairy chariot laden with everything that was delightful, to the very door. She would not go in any vulgar railway. She would keep everything in her own possession, and give each present with her own hands⁠—a crowning delight which was impossible to <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Copperhead⁠—and how clearly she seemed to see herself drawing up, with panting horses, high-stepping and splendid, to the dull door of the poor parsonage, where scarcely anything better than a pony-carriage ever came! How the children would rush to the window, and “even papa,” out of his study; and what a commotion would run through Grange Lane, and even up into the High Street, where the butcher and the baker would remember with a shiver how saucy they had sometimes been⁠—when they saw what a great lady she was.</p>
			<p>A dreamy smile hovered upon Ursula’s face as she saw all the little scenes of this little drama, mixed up with gleams of the shopwindows, and noises of the streets, and great ghosts of passing omnibuses, and horses steaming in the frosty air. How many girls, like her, go dreaming about the prosaic streets? It was not, perhaps, a very elevated or heroic dream, but the visionary chariot full of fine things for the children, was better than Cinderella’s pumpkin carriage, or many another chariot of romance. Her cousins, who were so much her elders, and who shuddered in their very souls at the thought of poor <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Copperhead, and who were talking earnestly about the children they expected next morning, and what was to be done with them, had no clue to Ursula’s thoughts. They did not think much of them, one way or another, but took great care not to lose her from their side, and that she should not be frightened by the crowding, which, after all, was the great matter. And they were very glad to get back to the comparative quiet of Suffolk Street, and to take off their bonnets and take their cup of tea. But Ursula, for her part, was sorry when the walk was over. She had enjoyed it so much. It was half Regent Street and half Carlingford, with the pleasure of both mixed up together; and she was half little Ursula May with her head in the air, and half that very great lady in the dream-chariot, who had it in her power to make everybody so happy. Between poor <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Copperhead, who was the most miserable, frightened little slave in the world, with nothing, as she said, but time and money, and Ursula without a penny, and who always had so much to do, what a gulf there was! a gulf, however, which fancy could bridge over so easily. But the dream was broken when she got indoors; not even the quiet of her own little room could bring back in all their glory the disturbed images that had floated before her in the street.</p>
			<p>This was Ursula’s last day in town, and there can be no doubt that it was of a nature, without any aid from Sophy’s suggestion, to put a great many ideas into her mind.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
