<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XLIV</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-44" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XLIV</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">Phoebe’s Last Trial</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>“Now if you please,” said <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Copperhead. “I think it’s my turn. I wanted May to hear what I had got to say, but as he’s ill or mad, or something, it is not much good. I can’t imagine what all these incantations meant, and all your play, Miss Phoebe, eyes and all. That sort of thing don’t suit us plain folks. If you don’t mind following your friends, I want to speak to old Tozer here by himself. I don’t like to have women meddling in my affairs.”</p>
			<p>“Grandpapa is very tired, and he is upset,” said Phoebe. “I don’t think he can have any more said to him to-night.”</p>
			<p>“By George, but he shall though, and you too. Look here,” said <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Copperhead, “you’ve taken in my boy Clarence here. He’s been a fool, and he always was a fool; but you’re not a fool, Miss Phoebe. You know precious well what you’re about. And just you listen to me; he shan’t marry you, not if he breaks his heart over it. I ain’t a man that thinks much of breaking hearts. You and he may talk what nonsense you like, but you shan’t marry my boy; no, not if there wasn’t another woman in the world.”</p>
			<p>“He has asked me,” said Phoebe; “but I certainly did not ask him. You must give your orders to your son, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Copperhead. You have no right to dictate to me. Grandpapa, I think you and I have had enough for to-night.”</p>
			<p>With this Phoebe began to close the shutters, which had been left open, and to put away books and things which were lying about. Tozer made a feeble attempt to stop her energetic proceedings.</p>
			<p>“Talk to the gentleman, Phoebe, if <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Copperhead ’as anything to say to you⁠—don’t, don’t you go and offend him, my dear!” the old man cried in an anxious whisper; and then he raised himself from the chair, in which he had sunk exhausted by the unusual commotions to which he had been subjected. “I am sure, sir,” Tozer began, “it ain’t my wish, nor the wish o’ my family, to do anything as is against your wishes⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Grandpapa,” said Phoebe, interrupting him ruthlessly, “<abbr>Mr.</abbr> Copperhead’s wishes may be a rule to his own family, but they are not to be a rule to yours. For my part I won’t submit to it. Let him take his son away if he pleases⁠—or if he can,” she added, turning round upon Clarence with a smile. “<abbr>Mr.</abbr> Clarence Copperhead is as free as I am to go or to stay.”</p>
			<p>“By Jove!” cried that young man, who had been hanging in the background, dark and miserable. He came close up to her, and caught first her sleeve and then her elbow; the contact seemed to give him strength. “Look here, sir,” he said, ingratiatingly, “we don’t want to offend you⁠—<em>I</em> don’t want to fly in your face; but I can’t go on having coaches for ever, and here’s the only one in the world that can do the business instead of coaches. Phoebe knows I’m fond of her, but that’s neither here nor there. Here is the one that can make something of me. I ain’t clever, you know it as well as I do⁠—but she is. I don’t mind going into parliament, making speeches and that sort of thing, if I’ve got her to back me up. But without her I’ll never do anything, without her you may put me in a cupboard, as you’ve often said. Let me have her, and I’ll make a figure, and do you credit. I can’t say any fairer,” said Clarence, taking the rest of her arm into his grasp, and holding her hand. He was stupid⁠—but he was a man, and Phoebe felt proud of him, for the moment at least.</p>
			<p>“You idiot!” cried his father, “and I was an idiot too to put any faith in you; come away from that artful girl. Can’t you see that it’s all a made-up plan from beginning to end? What was she sent down here for but to catch you, you oaf, you fool, you! Drop her, or you drop me. That’s all I’ve got to say.”</p>
			<p>“Yes, drop me, Clarence,” said Phoebe, with a smile; “for in the mean time you hurt me. See, you have bruised my arm. While you settle this question with your father, I will go to grandmamma. Pardon me, I take more interest in her than in this discussion between him and you.”</p>
			<p>“You shan’t go,” cried her lover, “not a step. Look here, sir. If that’s what it comes to, her before you. What you’ve made of me ain’t much, is it? but I don’t mind what I go in for, as long as she’s to the fore. Her before you.”</p>
			<p>“Is that your last word?” said <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Copperhead.</p>
			<p>“Yes.” His son faced him with a face as set and cloudy as his own. The mouth, shut close and sullen, was the same in both; but those brown eyes which Clarence got from his mother, and which were usually mild in their expression, looking out gently from the ruder face to which they did not seem to belong, were now, not clear, but muddy with resolution, glimmering with dogged obstinacy from under the drooping eyelids. He was not like himself; he was as he had been that day when <abbr>Mr.</abbr> May saw him at the Dorsets, determined, more than a match for his father, who had only the obstinacy of his own nature, not that dead resisting force of two people to bring to the battle. Clarence had all the pertinacity that was not in his mother, to reinforce his own. <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Copperhead stared at his son with that look of authority, half-imperious, half-brutal, with which he was in the habit of crushing all who resisted him; but Clarence did not quail. He stood dull and immovable, his eyes contracted, his face stolid, and void of all expression but that of resistance. He was not much more than a fool, but just by so much as his father was more reasonable, more clear-sighted than himself, was Clarence stronger than his father. He held Phoebe by the sleeve, that she might not escape him; but he faced <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Copperhead with a dull determination that all the powers of earth could not shake.</p>
			<p>For the moment the father lost his self-control.</p>
			<p>“Then I’ll go,” he said, “and when you’ve changed your mind, you can come to me; but⁠—” here he swore a big oath, “mind what you’re about. There never was a man yet but repented when he set himself against me.”</p>
			<p>Clarence made no answer. Talking was not in his way. And <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Copperhead showed his wondering apprehension of a power superior to his own, by making a pause after he had said this, and not going away directly. He stopped and tried once more to influence the rebel with that stare. “Phoebe⁠—Phoebe⁠—for God’s sake make him give in, and don’t go against <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Copperhead!” cried Tozer’s tremulous voice, shaken with weakness and anxiety. But Phoebe did not say anything. She felt in the hesitation, the pause, the despairing last effort to conquer, that the time of her triumph had nearly come. When he went away, they all stood still and listened to his footsteps going along the passage and through the garden. When he was outside he paused again, evidently with the idea of returning, but changed his mind and went on. To be left like this, the victors on a field of domestic conflict, is very often not at all a triumphant feeling, and involves a sense of defeat about as bad as the reality experienced by the vanquished. Phoebe, who was imaginative, and had lively feeling, felt a cold shiver go over her as the steps went away one by one, and began to cry softly, not knowing quite why it was; but Clarence, who had no imagination, nor any feelings to speak of, was at his ease and perfectly calm.</p>
			<p>“What are you crying for?” he said, “the governor can do what he likes. I’d marry you in spite of a hundred like him. He didn’t know what he was about, didn’t the governor, when he tackled <em>me</em>.”</p>
			<p>“But, Clarence, you must not break with your father, you must not quarrel on my account⁠—”</p>
			<p>“That’s as it may be,” he said, “never you mind. When it’s cleverness that’s wanted, it’s you that’s wanted to back me up⁠—but I can stick to my own way without you; and my way is this,” he said, suddenly lifting her from the ground, holding her waist between his two big hands, and giving her an emphatic kiss. Phoebe was silenced altogether when this had happened. He was a blockhead, but he was a man, and could stand up for his love, and for his own rights as a man, independent of the world. She felt a genuine admiration for her lout at that moment; but this admiration was accompanied by a very chill sense of all that might be forfeited if <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Copperhead stood out. Clarence, poor and disowned by his father, would be a very different person from the Clarence Copperhead who was going into parliament, and had “a fine position” in prospect. She did not form any resolutions as to what she would do in that case, for she was incapable of anything dishonourable; but it made her shiver as with a cold icy current running over; and as for poor old Tozer he was all but whimpering in his chair.</p>
			<p>“Oh, Lord!” he cried. “A great man like <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Copperhead affronted in my ’umble ’ouse. It’s what I never thought to see. A friend of the connection like that⁠—your father’s leading member. Oh, Phoebe, it was an evil day as brought you here to make all this mischief! and if I had known what was going on!” cried Tozer, almost weeping in his despair.</p>
			<p>“You are tired, grandpapa,” said Phoebe. “Don’t be frightened about us. <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Copperhead is very fond of Clarence, and he will give in; or if he doesn’t give in, still we shall not be worse off than many other people.” But she said this with a secret panic devouring her soul, wondering if it was possible that such a horrible revolution of circumstances and change of everything she had looked for, could be. Even Clarence was silenced, though immovable. He went away soon after, and betook himself to his room at the Parsonage, where all his possessions still were, while Phoebe attended upon her grandmother, whose agitation and fear she calmed without saying much. Tozer, quite broken down, retired to bed; and when they were all disposed of, Phoebe went out to the garden, and made a mournful little promenade there, with very serious thoughts. If Clarence was to be cast off by his father what could she do with him? It was not in Phoebe to abandon the stupid lover, who had stood up so manfully for her. No, she must accept her fate however the balance turned; but if this dreadful change happened what should she do with him? The question penetrated, and made her shiver to the depths of her soul; but never even in imagination did she forsake him. He was hers now, come good or ill; but the prospect of the ill was appalling to her. She went up and down the garden-path slowly in the silence, looking up to the stars, with her heart very full. Phoebe felt that no usual burden had been put upon her. Last night her occupation had been one of the purest charity, and this Providence had seemed to recompense in the morning, by dropping at her very feet the prize she had long meant to win; but now she was down again after being lifted up so high, and a great part of its value was taken out of that prize. Was she mercenary or worldly-minded in her choice? It would be hard to say so, for she never questioned with herself whether or not she should follow Clarence into obscurity and poverty, if things should turn out so. She would never abandon him, however bad his case might be; but her heart sunk very low when she thought of her future with him, without the “career” which would have made everything sweet.</p>
			<p><abbr>Mr.</abbr> Copperhead, too, had very serious thoughts on this subject, and sat up long drinking brandy-and-water, and knitting his brows, as he turned the subject over and over in his mind, recognizing with disgust (in which nevertheless there mingled a certain respect) that Clarence would not yield, he was as obstinate as himself, or more so. He had gone to the inn, where he was alone, without any of his usual comforts. It was perhaps the first time in his prosperous life that he had ever been really crossed. Joe had never attempted to do it, nor any of the first family. They had married, as they had done everything else, according to his dictation; and now here was his useless son, his exotic plant, his Dresden china, not only asserting a will of his own, but meaning to have it; and showing a resolution, a determination equal to his own. His mother had never shown anything of this. She had yielded, as every one else had yielded (<abbr>Mr.</abbr> Copperhead reflected), to whatever he ordered. Where had the boy got this unsuspected strength? A kind of smile broke unawares over the rich man’s face, as he asked himself this question, a smile which he chased away with a frown, but which nevertheless had been there for a moment roused by a subtle suggestion of self-flattery. Where, but from himself, had his gentleman-son (as the millionnaire proudly held him to be) got that strength of obstinacy? He chased the thought and the smile away with a frown, and went to bed gloomily nursing his wrath; but yet this suggestion which he himself had made was more flattering to himself than words can say. As for Clarence, the only other person deeply concerned, after he had asked for <abbr>Mr.</abbr> May, and expressed his regret to learn how ill he was, the young man smoked a cigar on the doorsteps, and then went peaceably, without either care or anxiety, to bed, where he slept very soundly till eight o’clock next morning, which was the hour at which he was called, though he did not always get up.</p>
			<p>When <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Copperhead began the new day, he began it with a very unwise idea, quickly carried out, as unwise ideas generally are. Feeling that he could make nothing of his son, he resolved to try what he could make of Phoebe; a young woman, nay, a bit of a girl not more than twenty, and a minister’s daughter, brought up in reverence of the leading member⁠—any resistance on her part seemed really incredible. He could not contemplate the idea of giving up all the cherished plans of his life by a melodramatic renunciation of his son. To give up Clarence whom he had trained to be the very apex and crowning point of his grandeur, was intolerable to him. But <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Copperhead had heard before now of young women, who, goaded to it, had been known to give up their lover rather than let their lover suffer on their account, and if this had ever been the case, surely it might be so in the present instance. Had he not the comfort of the Beecham family in his hands? Could not he make the Crescent Chapel too hot to hold them? Could he not awaken the fears of scores of other fathers very unlikely to permit their favourite sons to stray into the hands of pastors’ daughters? There was nothing indeed to be said against <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Beecham, but still it would be strange if <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Copperhead, out and away the richest man in the community, could not make the Crescent too hot to hold him. He went down the Lane from the “George,” where he had slept, quite early next morning, with this purpose full in his head, and, as good luck (he thought) would have it, found Phoebe, who had been restless all night with anxiety, and had got up early, once more walking up and down the long garden-path, reflecting over all that had happened, and wondering as to what might happen still. What a piece of luck it was! He was accustomed to have fortune on his side, and it seemed natural to him. He went up to her with scarcely a pause for the usual salutations, and plunged at once into what he had to say.</p>
			<p>“Miss Phoebe, I am glad to find you alone. I wanted a word with you,” he said, “about the affair of last night. Why shouldn’t you and I, the only two sensible ones in the business, settle it between ourselves? Old Tozer is an old ass, begging your pardon for saying so, and my son is a fool⁠—”</p>
			<p>“I do not agree to either,” said Phoebe gravely, “but never mind, I will certainly hear what you have to say.”</p>
			<p>“What I have to say is this. I will never consent to let my son Clarence marry you.” Here he was interrupted by a serious little bow of assent from Phoebe, which disconcerted and angered him strangely. “This being the case,” he resumed more hotly, “don’t you think we’d better come to terms, you and me? You are too sensible a girl, I’ll be bound, to marry a man without a penny, which is what he would be. He would be properly made an end of, Miss Phoebe, if he found out, after all his bravado last night, that you were the one to cast him off after all.”</p>
			<p>“He cannot find that out,” said Phoebe with a smile; “unfortunately even if I could have done it under brighter circumstances my mouth is closed now. I desert him now, when he is in trouble! Of course you do not know me, so you are excused for thinking so, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Copperhead.”</p>
			<p>The rich man stared. She was speaking a language which he did not understand. “Look here, Miss Phoebe,” he said, “let’s understand each other. High horses don’t answer with me. As for deserting him when he’s in trouble, if you’ll give him up⁠—or desert him, as you call it⁠—he need never be in trouble at all. You can stop all that. Just you say no to him, and he’ll soon be on his knees to me to think no more of it. You know who I am,” <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Copperhead continued with a concealed threat. “I have a deal of influence in the connection, though I say it that shouldn’t, and I’m very well looked on in chapel business. What would the Crescent do without me? And if there should be an unpleasantness between the minister and the leading member, why, you know, Miss Phoebe, no one better, who it is that would go to the wall.”</p>
			<p>She made no answer, and he thought she was impressed by his arguments. He went on still more strongly than before. “Such a clever girl as you knows all that,” said <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Copperhead, “and suppose you were to marry Clarence without a penny, what would become of you? What would you make of him? He is too lazy for hard work, and he has not brains enough for anything else. What would you make of him if you had him? That’s what I want to know.”</p>
			<p>“And that is just what I can’t tell you,” said Phoebe smiling. “It is a very serious question. I suppose something will turn up.”</p>
			<p>“What can turn up? You marry him because he is going into parliament, and could give you a fine position.”</p>
			<p>“I confess,” said Phoebe with her usual frankness, “that I did think of his career; without that the future is much darker, and rather depressing.”</p>
			<p>“Yes, you see that! A poor clod of a fellow that can’t work, and will be hanging upon you every day, keeping you from working⁠—that you will never be able to make anything of.”</p>
			<p>“<abbr>Mr.</abbr> Copperhead,” said Phoebe sweetly, “why do you tell all this to me? Your mere good sense will show you that I cannot budge. I have accepted him being rich, and I cannot throw him over when he is poor. I may not like it⁠—I don’t like it⁠—but I am helpless. Whatever change is made, it cannot be made by me.”</p>
			<p>He stared at her in blank wonder and dismay. For a moment he could not say anything. “Look here,” he faltered at last, “you thought him a great match, a rise in the world for you and yours; but he ain’t a great match any longer. What’s the use then of keeping up the farce? You and me understand each other. You’ve nothing to do but to let him off; you’re young and pretty, you’ll easily find some one else. Fools are plenty in this world,” he added, unable to refrain from that one fling. “Let him off and all will be right. What’s to prevent you? I’d not lose a moment if I were you.”</p>
			<p>Phoebe laughed. She had a pretty laugh, soft yet ringing like a child’s. “You and I, I fear, are no rule for each other,” she said. “<abbr>Mr.</abbr> Copperhead, what prevents me is a small thing called honour, that is all.”</p>
			<p>“Honour! that’s for men,” he said hastily, “and folly for them according as you mean it; but for women there’s no such thing, it’s sham and humbug; and look you here, Miss Phoebe,” he continued, losing his temper, “you see what your father will say to this when you get him into hot water with his people! There’s more men with sons than me; and if the Crescent ain’t too hot to hold him within a month⁠—Do you think I’ll stand it, a beggarly minister and his belongings coming in the way of a man that could buy you all up, twenty times over, and more!”</p>
			<p>The fury into which he had worked himself took away <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Copperhead’s breath. Phoebe said nothing. She went on by his side with soft steps, her face a little downcast, the suspicion of a smile about her mouth.</p>
			<p>“By George!” he cried, when he had recovered himself, “you think you can laugh at me. You think you can defy me, you, a bit of a girl, as poor as Job!”</p>
			<p>“I defy no one,” said Phoebe. “I cannot prevent you from insulting me, that is all; which is rather hard,” she added, with a smile, which cost her an effort, “seeing that I shall have to drag your son through the world somehow, now that you have cast him off. He will not give me up, I know, and honour prevents me from giving him up. So I shall have hard work enough, without any insults from you. It is a pity,” said Phoebe, with a sort of sympathetic regret for herself so badly used. “I could have made a man of him. I could have backed him up to get on as well as most men; but it will certainly be uphill work now.”</p>
			<p>She did not look at the furious father as she spoke. She was quite calm, treating it reflectively, regretfully, as a thing past and over. <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Copperhead tried to burst forth again in threats and objurgations; but in spite of himself, and though she never said another word, the big, rich, noisy man was silenced. He went away, threatening to appeal to her father, which Phoebe, with a last effort, begged him smilingly to do. But this was the last of which she was capable. When she had closed the door after him, she rushed upstairs to her room, and cried bitterly. Everything was very dark to her. If he did appeal to her father, the appeal would spread confusion and dismay through the pastor’s heart and family; and what was to become of herself, with Clarence on her hands, who could do nothing that was useful, and could earn neither his own living nor hers? All this was very terrible to Phoebe, and for a moment she contemplated the unheard of step of having a headache, and staying upstairs. But she reflected that her poor old grandfather had done <em>his</em> duty, at no small sacrifice, according to her bidding, yesterday; and she bathed her eyes heroically, and collected her strength and went down to breakfast as usual. It was her duty, which she must do.</p>
			<p>As for <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Copperhead, he took a long walk, to reflect upon all the circumstances, which were complicated enough to cause him much trouble. He could not give up his cherished scheme, his Member of Parliament, his crown of glory. It was what he had been looking forward to for years. He tried to realize the failure of his hopes, and could not⁠—nay, would not, feeling it more than he could bear. No; without his gentleman son, his University man, his costly, useless production, who was worth so much money to him, yet brought in nothing, he felt that he must shrink in the opinion of all his friends, even of his own sons, the “first family,” who had so envied, sneered at, undervalued Clarence, yet had been forced to be civil to him, and respect their father’s imperious will as he chose that it should be respected. What a sorry figure he should cut before all of them if he cast off Clarence, and had to announce himself publicly as foiled in all his plans and hopes! He could not face this prospect; he shrank from it as if it had involved actual bodily pain. The men who would laugh at his failure were men of his own class, to whom he had bragged at his ease, crowing and exulting over them, and he felt that he could not face them if all his grand anticipations collapsed. There was nothing for it but to give in. And on the other hand this girl Phoebe was a very clever girl, able not only to save the expense of coaches, but to cram the boy, and keep him up better than any coach could do. She could make his speeches for him, like enough, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Copperhead thought, and a great many reasons might be given to the world why she had been chosen instead of a richer wife for the golden boy. Golden girls, as a general rule, were not of so much use. “Fortune ain’t worth thinking of in comparison with brains. It was brains I wanted, and I’ve bought ’em dear; but I hope I can afford it,” he almost heard himself saying to an admiring, envious assembly; for <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Copperhead so far deserved his success that he could accept a defeat when it was necessary, and make the best of it. When he had nearly ended his walk, and had reached in his thoughts to this point, he met his son, who was walking up from the Parsonage to <abbr>No.</abbr> 6 in the Lane. Clarence looked cheerful enough as he walked along, whistling under his breath, towards his love; but when he saw his father, a change came over his face. Once more his eyelids drooped over his eyes, and those muddy brown orbs got fixed in dull obstinacy; once more his upper lip shut down sullen and fast upon the lower. The entire expression of his face changed. <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Copperhead saw this afar off, from the moment his son perceived him, and the sight gave to all his thinking that force which reality gives to imagination; the risk he was running became doubly clear.</p>
			<p>“Good morning, Clarence,” he said.</p>
			<p>“Good morning, sir,” responded the other, with lowering brows and close-shut mouth.</p>
			<p>“I suppose you were coming to the George to me? Come along, I’ve had no breakfast; and let’s hope, my boy, that you’re in a better mind than last night.”</p>
			<p>“Look here, sir,” said Clarence; “you might as well ask one of those houses to walk with you to the George, and show a better mind. I’m of one mind, and one only. I’ll marry Phoebe Beecham, whether you like it or not, and no other woman in this world.”</p>
			<p>“Is that your last word?” said the father, curiously repeating, without being aware of it, his question of the previous night.</p>
			<p>“That’s my last word,” said the son, contemplating his father sullenly from under the heavy lids of his obstinate eyes.</p>
			<p>“Very well,” said <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Copperhead; “then come along to breakfast, for I’m hungry, and we can talk it over there.”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
