<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XIV</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-14" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XIV</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">Strangers</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>“Well, Ursula, how do you do?” said <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Sam Hurst, meeting her young neighbour with outstretched hands. She was a portly good-looking woman with an active mind, and nothing, or next to nothing to do, and instead of being affronted as some persons might have been, she was amused, and indeed flattered, by the suspicion and alarm with which all the young Mays regarded her. Whether she had the least intention of ever giving any justification to their alarms it would be impossible to say, for indeed to a sensible woman of forty-five, well to do and comfortable, a husband with “a temper of his own,” and a large poor unruly family, was, perhaps, not so tempting as he appeared to be to his jealous children. Anyhow she was not at all angry with them for being jealous and afraid of her. She was cordial in her manner to the Mays as to everybody she knew. She asked how Ursula had enjoyed herself, where she had been, what she had seen, and a hundred questions more.</p>
			<p>“It is quite delightful to see somebody who has something to tell,” she said when the interrogation was over. “I ask everybody what news, and no one has any news, which is dreadful for me.”</p>
			<p>“How can you care for news?” said Ursula, “news! what interest can there be in mere news that doesn’t concern us?”</p>
			<p>“You are very foolish, my dear,” said <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Hurst; “what’s to become of you when you’re old, if you don’t like to hear what’s going on? I’m thankful to say I take a great deal, of interest in my fellow-creatures for my part. Now listen, I’ll tell you a piece of news in return for all your information about London. When I was in Tozer’s shop to-day⁠—I always go there, though they are Dissenters; after all, you know, most tradespeople are Dissenters; some are sorry for it, some think it quite natural that gentle-people and tradespeople should think differently in religious matters; however, what I say is, you can’t tell the difference in butter and bacon between church and dissent, can you now? and Tozer’s is the best shop in the town, certainly the best shop. So as I was in Tozer’s as I tell you, who should come in but old <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Tozer, who once kept it herself⁠—and by her side, figure my astonishment, a young lady! yes, my dear, actually a young lady, in appearance, of course⁠—I mean in appearance⁠—for, as you shall hear, it could be no more than that. So nicely dressed, nothing vulgar or showy, a gown that Elise might have made, and everything to correspond, in perfect taste. Fancy! and you may imagine how I stared. I could not take my eyes off her. I was so astonished that I rubbed up my old acquaintance with the old woman, and asked her how her rheumatism was. I <em>hope</em> it is rheumatism. At all events I called it so, and then she told me as proud as a peacock that it was her granddaughter; fancy, her granddaughter! did you ever hear of such a thing? The other woman in the shop, the present Tozer, called out to her by name. Phœbe they called her. Poor girl, I was so sorry for her. A lady in appearance, and to have to submit to that!”</p>
			<p>“Oughtn’t ladies to be called Phœbe?” asked Janey. “Why not? It’s rather a pretty name.”</p>
			<p>“That is so like Janey,” said <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Hurst; “I know she is the clever one; but she never can see what one means. It is not being called Phœbe, it is because of her relations that I am sorry for her. Poor girl! educating people out of their sphere does far more harm than good, I always maintain. To see that nice-looking, well-dressed girl in Tozer’s shop, with all the butter boys calling her Phœbe⁠—”</p>
			<p>“The butter boys are as good as any one else,” cried Janey, whose tendencies were democratic. “I dare say she likes her relations as well as we like ours, and better, though they do keep a shop.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, Janey!” cried Ursula, whose feelings were touched; then she remembered that her sympathies ought not to flow in the same channel with those of <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Sam Hurst, and continued coldly, “If she had not liked them she need not have come to see them.”</p>
			<p>“That is all you know, you girls. You don’t know the plague of relations, and how people have got to humble themselves to keep money in the family, or keep up appearances, especially people that have risen in the world. I declare I think they pay dear for rising in the world, or their poor children pay dear⁠—”</p>
			<p>“You seem to take a great deal of interest in the Tozers,” said Ursula, glad to administer a little correction; “even if they came to <abbr>St.</abbr> Roque’s I could understand it⁠—but Dissenters!” This arrow struck home.</p>
			<p>“Well,” said <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Hurst, colouring, “of all people to take an interest in Dissenters I am the last; but I was struck, I must admit, to see that old <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Tozer, looking like an old washerwoman, with a girl in a twenty-guinea dress, you may take my word for it, though as plain as that little brown frock of yours, Ursula. That was a sight to wake any one up.”</p>
			<p>Ursula looked down at the little brown frock thus contemptuously referred to, with mingled offence and consciousness of inferiority. It had not cost as many shillings, and had been made up at home, and was not a shining example of the dressmaker’s art. “If you value people according to what their dress costs⁠—”</p>
			<p>“I can’t know much about her moral qualities, can I?” said <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Hurst, “and I don’t suppose she has any position, being old Tozer’s grandchild. But she wasn’t amiss in her looks, and I declare I should have taken her for a lady if I had met her in the street. It shows how one may be taken in. And this is a lesson for you, young girls; you must never trust to appearances. I confess I’d like to find out some more about her. Going in, Ursula? Well, my dear, perhaps I’ll step in for a talk in the evening. You must be dull after your gaiety. Tell your dear papa,” said <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Hurst with a laugh, “that I am coming to sit with you after tea. Now mind you give him my message. He does not like to miss me when I come to the Parsonage, does he now? Good-bye for the present. Till eight o’clock.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, how I hate her,” cried Janey, “except sometimes when she makes me laugh and I feel tempted to like her; but I always resist it. Do you think really, Ursula, that papa could be⁠—such a⁠—stupid⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Oh, please don’t ask me,” cried Ursula. “How can I tell? I don’t know what he may do; but if he does⁠—and if she does⁠—oh, then, Janey⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Yes, indeed, then!” said Janey, breathing hard. This mysterious threat seemed very horrible to both of them, though what they meant by it, it would have been very hard for either of them to tell. They waited within the little shrubbery whispering to each other till they heard <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Hurst close her own door, for they did not want any more of her society, though they had no intention of going in. When she was safe out of the way, they stole out and continued their walk in the opposite direction.</p>
			<p>“I wanted to have gone into the town,” said Ursula. “It <em>is</em> hard to have that woman next door; one can’t go anywhere or do anything! I wanted some braid for your new frock, Janey, and twist to make the button-holes; but if we had said we were going up into Carlingford, she would have come too. Never mind; a walk is better than nothing. Walk fast, and let us try how far we can go before tea.”</p>
			<p>Upon this idea the two girls set out walking as if for a race, which did them all the good in the world, quickening the blood in their veins, sending the colour to their cheeks, and dispersing all the cobwebs from their minds, since they soon got into the spirit of the race, and pursued it with eagerness, with little outbursts of laughter, and breathless adjurations to each other to keep within the proper pace, and not to run. It was not a very inviting road along which they took their walk. Beyond <abbr>St.</abbr> Roque the land was divided into allotments for the working people, not very tidily kept, and rough with cut cabbages, plants, and dug-up potatoes. Beyond this lay a great turnip-field, somewhat rank in smell, and the east wind swept chill along the open road, which was not sheltered by a single tree, so that the attractions of the way soon palled upon pedestrians. Looking back to Grange Lane, the snug and sheltered look of that genteel adjunct to the town was comforting to behold. Even Grange Lane was not gay; a line of garden walls, however they may shelter and comfort the gardens within, are not lovely without; but yet the trees, though leafless, waved over the red lines of brick, and the big laurels hung out bushes of dark verdure and long floating sprays of ivy.</p>
			<p>“Let’s turn back; perhaps she may not be at the window,” cried Ursula. “It is so dull here.”</p>
			<p>Janey stopped short in the heat of the walk, objecting for the moment.</p>
			<p>“I wish you had not gone to London. You never used to care for the streets and the shops; now a regular good walk is too much for you,” cried Janey.</p>
			<p>“With a turnip-field on one side and a potato-field on the other!” said Ursula, in high disdain.</p>
			<p>“I tell you what!” cried Janey. “I don’t think I like you since you came back. The Dorsets are fine people, and we are not fine. There are no grand parties, nor theatres, nor balls at Carlingford. When we go out here, we go to walk, not to see things, as you have been used to doing. I don’t know what you mean by it; nineteen years with us, and one fortnight with them! and the fortnight counts for more than all the years!”</p>
			<p>Janey was not in the habit of restraining her voice any more than anything else about her, and she spoke this out with loud school-girl tones, reckless who might hear her. In most cases she might have done this with the utmost impunity, and how was she to know, as she said to her sister afterwards, in self-defence, that any one, especially any gentleman, could be lurking about, spying upon people, among those nasty allotments? There was some one there, however, who came down the muddy path, all cut up by the wheel-barrows, with a smile upon his face. A gentleman? Janey called him so without a doubt on the subject; but Ursula, more enlightened and slightly irritated, had her doubts. He was dressed, not with any care of morning costume, but wore a black frock-coat of the most formal description, with a white cravat carelessly tied, semi-clerical, and yet not clerical. He had a smile on his face, which, on the whole, was rather a handsome face, and looked at them, showing evident signs of having heard what Janey said. To be sure, he did not say anything, but Ursula felt that his look was just the same as if he had spoken, and coloured high, resenting the intrusion. By this stranger’s side was one of the men who had been working at the allotments, whose hands were not clean, and whose boots were heavy with the clinging, clayey soil. When they had nearly reached the road, the gentleman turned round and shook hands with his companion, and then walked on towards Carlingford, throwing another look towards the girls as he passed. It would be hard to say whether curiosity or anger was strongest in Ursula. In Janey, the former sentiment carried everything before it.</p>
			<p>“Oh, I wonder who he is?” she cried, low, but eager, in her sister’s ear. “Who can he be, Ursula, who can he be? We know all the men about here, every one, as well as we know Reginald. Oh, Ursula, who do you think he can be?”</p>
			<p>“He is very impertinent,” cried Ursula, with an angry blush. “How should I know? And oh! how very silly of you, Janey, to talk so loud, and make impudent men stare at us so.”</p>
			<p>“Impudent!” cried Janey. “I didn’t talk loud. He looked rather nice, on the contrary. Why, he laughed! Do you call that impudent? It can’t be anybody from the town, because we know everybody; and did you see him shaking hands with that man? How very funny! Let us run in and tell <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Sam Hurst, and ask her who she thinks he is. She is sure to know.”</p>
			<p>“Janey,” said Ursula, severely, “if you live very long, you will be as great a gossip and as fond of news as <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Sam Hurst herself.”</p>
			<p>“I don’t care,” cried Janey; “you’re just as fond of news as I am, only you won’t confess it. I am dying to know who he is. He is quite nice-looking, and tall and grand. A new gentleman! Come, quick, Ursula; let us get back and see where he goes.”</p>
			<p>“Janey!” cried the elder sister. She was half curious herself, but Ursula was old enough to know better, and to be ashamed of the other’s naïve and undisguised curiosity. “Oh, what would Cousin Anne say! A girl running after a gentleman (even if he is a gentleman), to see where he goes!”</p>
			<p>“Well!” cried Janey, “if she wants to know, what else is she to do? Who cares for Cousin Anne? She is an old maid. Why, if it had been a lady, I shouldn’t have minded. There are so many ladies; but a new gentleman! If you won’t come on, I will run by myself. How pleased <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Sam Hurst will be!”</p>
			<p>“I thought you hated <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Sam Hurst?”</p>
			<p>“So I do when I think of papa; but when there’s anything going on, or anything to find out, I like her dearly. She’s such fun! She never shilly-shallies, like you. She’s not an old maid like your Cousin Anne that you are always talking of. Come along! if anybody else finds out who he is before we do,” cried Janey, with almost despairing energy, “I shall break my heart!”</p>
			<p>Ursula stoically resisted the tug upon her, but she went back to Grange Lane, to which, indeed, she had turned her face before they met the stranger, and she could not help seeing the tall black figure in front of her which Janey watched so eagerly. Ursula was not eager, but she could not help seeing him. He walked up the street quickly, not as if he thought himself of interest to any one, but when he had got half way up Grange Lane, crossed to speak to somebody. This filled Janey with consternation.</p>
			<p>“He is not such a stranger after all,” she cried. “He knows some one. He will not be quite a discovery. Who is it he is talking to, I wonder? He is standing at one of the doors, but it is not Miss Humphreys, nor Miss Griffiths, nor any of the Charters. Perhaps she is a stranger too. If he is married he won’t be half so interesting, for there are always plenty of ladies. Perhaps he has just come by the railway to spend the day⁠—but then there is nothing to see in Carlingford, and how did he know that man at the lots? Oh, Ursula, why don’t you answer me? why don’t you say something? have you no feeling? I am sure it don’t matter a bit to me, for I am not out; I am never asked to parties⁠—but I take an interest for you other girls’ sake.”</p>
			<p>Before this time, however, Ursula had found a new object of interest. She had not been quite so unmoved as Janey supposed. A new gentleman was a thing to awaken anybody who knew Carlingford, for, indeed, gentlemen were scarce in the society of the little town, and even at the most mild of tea-parties it is ludicrous to see one man (and that most likely a curate) among a dozen ladies⁠—so that even when she appeared to Janey to wonder, she felt that her sister’s curiosity was not unjustifiable. But while thus engaged in the enterprise of discovering “a new gentleman” for the good of society, Ursula’s eyes and her attention were caught by another interest. The stranger had crossed the street to talk to a lady, who had been walking down the Lane, and whom Ursula felt she had seen somewhere. Who was it? Certainly not Miss Humphreys, nor Miss Griffiths, nor any other of the well-known young ladies of Grange Lane. The setting sun, which had come out suddenly after a dull day, threw a slanting, long-drawn ray up the street, which fell upon the strangers, as they stood talking. This ray caught the young lady’s hair, and flashed back a reflection out of the shining coils which looked to Ursula (being dark herself, she admired golden hair more than anything) as bright as the sunshine. And in the light she caught the out-line of a pretty head, and of a nose slightly “tip-tilted,” according to the model which the Laureate has brought into fashion. Where had she seen her before? She remembered all at once with a rush of bewildered pleasure.</p>
			<p>“Janey! Oh, Janey!” she cried, “Listen! This is too extraordinary. There is the young lady in black!”</p>
			<p>Janey, as may be supposed, had heard every detail of <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Copperhead’s ball, and knew what Ursula meant as well as Ursula herself did. She grew pale with excitement and curiosity. “No!” she said, “you can’t mean it. Are you sure, are you quite sure? Two new people in one day! Why, everybody must be coming to Carlingford. It makes me feel quite strange!” said this susceptible young woman; “the young lady in black!”</p>
			<p>“Oh, yes, there can’t be any mistake,” said Ursula, hurrying on in her excitement, “I looked at her so much. I couldn’t mistake her. Oh, I wonder if she will know me, I wonder if she will speak to me! or if she is going to see the Dorsets, or what has brought her to Carlingford. Only fancy, Janey, the young lady in black whom I have talked so much of; oh, I wonder, I do wonder what has brought her here.”</p>
			<p>They were on the opposite side of the lane, so that their hurried approach did not startle the strangers; but Phœbe, looking up at the sound of the footsteps, saw a face she knew looking wistfully, eagerly at her, with evident recognition. Phœbe had a faculty quite royal of remembering faces, and it took but a moment to recall Ursula’s to her. Another moment was spent in a rapid discussion with herself, as to whether she should give or withhold the salutation which the girl evidently sought. But what harm could it do? and it would be pleasant to know some one; and if on finding out who she was, Miss Dorset’s little relation shrank from her acquaintance, why then, Phœbe said to herself, “I shall be no worse than before.” So she sent a smile and a bow across the road and said, “How do you do?” in a pause of her conversation. Ursula was too shy to feel on equal terms with the young lady in black, who was so much more self-possessed than she was. She blushed and smiled, answered, “Quite well, thank you,” across the lane like a child, and notwithstanding a great many pokes from Janey’s energetic elbow, went on without further response.</p>
			<p>“Oh, why can’t you run across and speak to her?” cried Janey, “oh, how funny you are, and how disagreeable! would <em>I</em> pass any one I knew, like that!”</p>
			<p>“You don’t understand, you are only a child,” said Ursula, frightened and agitated, yet full of dignity, “we have only met⁠—in society. When you are introduced to any one in society it does not count. Perhaps they might not want to know you; perhaps⁠—but anyhow you can’t rush up to them like two girls at school. You have to wait and see what they will do.”</p>
			<p>“Well, I declare!” cried Janey; “then what is the good of society? You know them, and yet you mustn’t know them. I would never be such a fool as that. Fancy looking at her across the lane and saying ‘quite well, thank you,’ after she had begun to speak. I suppose that’s Cousin Anne’s way? I should have rushed across and asked where she was staying, and when she would come to see us. Ursula, oh,” cried Janey, suddenly changing her tone, and looking at her sister with eyes which had widened to twice their natural size with the grandeur of the idea, “you will have to ask her to tea!”</p>
			<p>“Oh, you silly girl, do you think she would come? you should have seen her at the ball. She knew everybody, and had such quantities of partners. <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Clarence Copperhead was always dancing with her. Fancy her coming to tea with us.” But Ursula herself was somewhat breathless with the suggestion. When a thing has been once said, there is always a chance that it may be done, and the two girls walked up very quickly into the High Street after this, silent, with a certain awe of themselves and their possibilities. It might be done, now that it had been said.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
