<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XI</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-11" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2>XI</h2>
				<p>Phœbe’s Preparations</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>A few days after Ursula’s return home, another arrival took place in Carlingford. Phœbe Beecham, after considering the case fully, and listening with keen interest to all the indications she could pick up as to the peculiarities of her grandfather’s house, and the many things in life at Carlingford which were “unlike what she had been used to,” had fully made up her mind to dare the difficulties of that unknown existence, and to devote herself in her mother’s place to the care of her grandmother and the confusion of <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Tom. This was partly undertaken out of a sense of duty, partly out of that desire for change and the unknown, which has to content itself in many cases with the very mildest provision, and partly because Phœbe’s good sense perceived the necessity of the matter. She was by no means sure what were the special circumstances that made “<abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Tom” disagreeable to her mother, but she was deeply sensible of the importance of preventing <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Tom from securing to herself and her family all that <abbr>Mr.</abbr> and <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Tozer had to leave. Phœbe was not mercenary in her own person, but she had no idea of giving up any “rights,” and she felt it of the utmost importance that her brother, who was unfortunately by no means so clever as herself, should be fully provided against all the contingencies of life. She was not concerned about herself in that particular. Phœbe felt it a matter of course that she should marry, and marry well. Self-confidence of this assured and tranquil sort serves a great many excellent purposes⁠—it made her even generous in her way. She believed in her star, in her own certain good-fortune, in herself; and therefore her mind was free to think and to work for other people. She knew very well by all her mother said, and by all the hesitations of both her parents, that she would have many disagreeable things to encounter in Carlingford, but she felt so sure that nothing could really humiliate <i>her</i>, or pull her down from her real eminence, that the knowledge conveyed no fears to her mind. When this confidence in her own superiority to all debasing influences is held by the spotless princess in the poem, it is the most beautiful of human sentiments, and why it should not be equally elevated when entertained by a pink and plump modern young woman, well up in all nineteenth century refinements, and the daughter of the minister of the Crescent Chapel, it would be hard to say. Phœbe held it with the strongest faith.</p>
			<p>“Their ways of thinking, perhaps, and their ways of living, are not those which I have been used to,” she said; “but how does that affect me? I am myself whatever happens; even if poor dear grandmamma’s habits are not refined, which I suppose is what you mean, mamma, that does not make me unrefined. A lady must always be a lady wherever she is⁠—Una,” she continued, using strangely enough the same argument which has occurred to her historian, “is not less a princess when she is living among the satyrs. Of course, I am not like Una⁠—and neither are they like the wild people in the wood.”</p>
			<p><abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Beecham did not know much about Una, except that she was somebody in a book; but she kissed her daughter, and assured her that she was “a real comfort,” and devoted herself to her comfort for the few days that remained, doing everything that it was possible to do to show her love, and, so to speak, gratitude to the good child who was thus throwing herself into the breach. The Beechams were in no want of money to buy what pleased them, and the mother made many additions to Phœbe’s wardrobe which that young lady herself thought quite unnecessary, not reflecting that other sentiments besides that of simple love for herself were involved.</p>
			<p>“They shall see that my daughter is not just like one of their common-looking girls,” <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Beecham said to her husband; and he shared the feeling, though he could not but think within himself that her aspect was of very much more importance than the appearance of Phœbe Tozer’s child could possibly be as <i>his</i> daughter.</p>
			<p>“You are quite right, my dear,” he replied, “vulgar people of that sort are but too ready to look down upon a pastor’s family. They ought to be made to see the difference.”</p>
			<p>The consequence of this was that Phœbe was fitted out like a young princess going on her travels. Ursula May would have been out of her wits with delight, had half these fine things come her way; but Phœbe took them very calmly.</p>
			<p>“I have never undervalued dress,” she said, “as some girls do; I think it is a very important social influence. And even without that, mamma, so long as it pleases you⁠—” So with this mixture of philosophy and affection all went well.</p>
			<p>“We must call on <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Copperhead before you go; they would think it strange, after all the interest they have shown in us.”</p>
			<p>“Have they shown an interest in us?” said Phœbe. “Of course we must call⁠—and <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Copperhead is a lady, but as for <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Copperhead, mamma⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Hush! he is the leading member, and very influential in the connection. A pastor’s family must not be touchy, Phœbe. We must put up with a great many things. There ought to be peace among brethren, you know, and harmony is the first thing that is essential in a church⁠—”</p>
			<p>“I wonder if harmony would be as essential, supposing <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Copperhead to come to grief, mamma.”</p>
			<p>“Phœbe! slang from you⁠—who have always set your face against it.”</p>
			<p>“What can one talk but slang when one thinks of such a person?” said Phœbe gravely; and thus saying she opened the door for her mother, and they went out in their best gowns to pay their visit. <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Copperhead was very civil to the pastor’s family. It was not in her to be uncivil to any one; but in her soft heart she despised them a little, and comported herself to them with that special good behaviour and dignified restraint which the best natured people reserve for their inferiors. For though she went to chapel, taken there by <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Copperhead, she was “church” at heart. The interest which <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Beecham took in everything, and the praises she bestowed on the ball, did not relax her coldness. They were too well off, too warm and silken to call forth her sympathies, and there was little in common between them to afford any ground for meeting.</p>
			<p>Yes, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Copperhead was quite well⁠—she was quite well⁠—her son was quite well. She hoped <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Beecham was well. She had heard that most people were pleased with the ball, thank you. Oh, Miss Beecham was going away⁠—indeed! She hoped the weather would be good; and then <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Copperhead sat erect upon her sofa, and did not try to say any more. Though she had not the heart of a mouse, she too could play the great lady when occasion served. Clarence, however, was much more hospitable than his mother. He liked Phœbe, who could talk almost as if she was in society, as girls talk in novels. He knew, of course, that she was not in society, but she was a girl whom a fellow could get on with, who had plenty to say for herself, who was not a lay figure like many young ladies; and then she was pretty, pink, and golden, “a piece of colour” which was attractive to the eye. He soon found out where she was going, and let her know that he himself intended a visit to the neighbourhood.</p>
			<p>“The Dorsets live near,” he said. “Relations of my mother. You saw them at the ball. I dare say you will meet them somewhere about.” This, it is to be feared, Clarence said in something of his mother’s spirit, with a warm sense of superiority, for he knew that the pastor’s daughter was very unlikely to meet the Dorsets. Phœbe, however, was equal to the occasion.</p>
			<p>“I am not at all likely to meet them,” she said with a gracious smile. “For one thing, I am not going to enjoy myself, but to nurse a sick person. And sick people don’t go to parties. Besides, you know the foolish prejudices of society, properly so called. I think them foolish because they affect me,” said Phœbe, with engaging frankness. “If they did not affect me, probably I should think them all right.”</p>
			<p>“What foolish prejudices?” said Clarence, thinking she was about to say something about her inferior position, and already feeling flattered before she spoke.</p>
			<p>“About Dissenters, you know,” she said; “of course, you must be aware that we are looked down upon in society. It does not matter, for when people have any sense, as soon as they know us they do us justice; but of course you must be aware that the prejudice exists.”</p>
			<p>Clarence did know, and with some bitterness; for <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Copperhead, though he did not care much, perhaps, about religion, cared for his chapel, and stood by it with unswerving strictness. His son, who was an Oxford man, and respectful of all the prejudices of society, did not like this. But what could he do against the obstinate dissentership of his father? This, as much as anything else, had acted upon the crowd the night of the ball, and made them all nobodies. He hesitated to make any reply, and his face flushed with shame and displeasure. Phœbe felt that she had avenged upon Clarence his mother’s haughty politeness. She had brought home to him a sense of the social inferiority which was common to them both. Having done this, she was satisfied, and proceeded to soften the blow.</p>
			<p>“It cannot fall upon you, who are in so much better a position, as it does upon us,” said Phœbe. “We are the very head and front of the offending, a Dissenting minister’s family!⁠—Society and its charms are not for us. And I hope we know our place,” she said, with mock humility; “when people have any sense and come to know us it is different; and for the foolish ones I don’t care. But you see from that, I am not likely to meet your cousins, am I?” she added with a laugh.</p>
			<p>“If you mean that they are among the foolish ones⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Oh, no; I don’t. But you can’t suppose they will take the trouble to find <i>me</i> out. Why should they? People entirely out of my range, and that have nothing to do with me. So you may be quite sure I am right when I say we sha’n’t meet.”</p>
			<p>“Well,” said Clarence, piqued, “I am going to Easton, and I shall see you, if <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Beecham will give me permission to call.”</p>
			<p>“She will give you the address along with that; but till then, good-bye,” said Phœbe. To tell the truth, she had no desire to see Clarence Copperhead in Carlingford. Perhaps he meant something, perhaps he did not⁠—at this stage of the proceedings it was a matter of indifference to Phœbe, who certainly had not allowed “her affections” to become engaged. If he did mean anything, was it likely that he could support unmoved the grandfather and grandmother who were, or had been, “in trade?” On the other hand, was it not better that he should know the worst? Phœbe was no husband-hunter. She contemplated the issue with calm and composure, however it might turn out.</p>
			<p>“He asked me if he might call,” said <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Beecham, in some excitement. “I don’t care much to have you seen, my darling, out of your own father’s house.”</p>
			<p>“Just as you please, mamma⁠—just as it suits best,” said Phœbe, dismissing the subject. She was not anxious. A good deal depended on whether he meant anything or nothing, but even that did not conclude the subject, for she had not made up her own mind.</p>
			<p>“Why didn’t you tell them about the Mays?” said Clarence, as the two ladies went out. “They live in Carlingford, and I should think it would be pleasant on both sides.”</p>
			<p>“My dear boy, you forget the difference of position,” said <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Copperhead. “They are Dissenters.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, I like that,” cried Clarence, half angry, as himself sharing the disadvantages of the connection. “A needy beggar like May has a great deal to stand upon. I like that.”</p>
			<p>“But it is true all the same,” said <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Copperhead, shaking her head. “And you can see the difference at once. I dare say Miss Beecham is a very clever young woman, but between her and Miss May what a difference there is! Any one can see it⁠—”</p>
			<p>“I am afraid then I am stupid, for I can’t see it, mother. They are both pretty girls, but for amusing you and that sort of thing give me Phœbe. She is worth twenty of the other. As sharp as a needle, and plenty to say for herself. This is the kind of girl I like.”</p>
			<p>“I am very sorry for it. I hope that is not the kind of wife you will like,” said <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Copperhead, with a sigh.</p>
			<p>“Oh, wife! they haven’t a penny, either the one or the other,” said Clarence, with delightful openness, “and we may be sure that would not suit the governor even if it suited me.”</p>
			<p>In the mean time <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Beecham and Phœbe were walking up the broad pavement of Portland Place towards their home.</p>
			<p>“It is pleasant to see the mother and the son together,” said <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Beecham, who was determined to see everything in the best light that concerned the Copperheads. “They are so devoted to each other, and, Phœbe, dear⁠—I don’t like to talk in this way to a sensible girl like you, but you must see it with your own eyes. You have certainly made a great impression upon Clarence Copperhead. When he said he hoped to see you in Carlingford, and asked, might he call? it was exactly like asking my permission to pay you his addresses; it is very flattering, but it is embarrassing as well.”</p>
			<p>“I do not feel particularly flattered, mamma; and I think if I were you I would not give him the address.”</p>
			<p><abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Beecham looked anxiously in her daughter’s face.</p>
			<p>“Is it from prudence, Phœbe, or is it that you don’t like him, that you wouldn’t have him if he asked you?”</p>
			<p>“We must wait till he does ask me,” said Phœbe, decisively. “Till then I can’t possibly tell. But I don’t want him at Carlingford. I know that grandpapa and grandmamma are⁠—in trade.”</p>
			<p>“Yes, dear,” said <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Beecham, in a subdued voice.</p>
			<p>“Dissenters, and in trade; and he is going to stay with the Dorsets, fine county people. Don’t give him the address; if we meet by chance, there is no harm done. I am not ashamed of any one belonging to me. But you can say that you don’t think his father would like him to be visiting me at Carlingford⁠—which I am sure would be quite true.”</p>
			<p>“Indeed he might go much farther without finding any one so well worth visiting,” said the mother, indignant, to which Phœbe nodded her head in tranquil assent.</p>
			<p>“That is neither here nor there,” she said; “you can always tell him so, and that will please <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Copperhead, if ever he comes to hear of it. He thought at one time that I was too entertaining. One knows what that means. I should like him to see how little I cared.”</p>
			<p>“But, my dear, Clarence Copperhead would be worth⁠—a little attention. He could give a girl⁠—a very nice position,” <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Beecham faltered, looking at her daughter between every word.</p>
			<p>“I am not saying anything against Clarence Copperhead,” said Phœbe, with composure, “but I should like his dear papa to know how little I care, and that you have refused him my address.”</p>
			<p>This was all she said on the subject. Phœbe was quite ready to allow that Clarence was everything that her mother had said, and she had fully worked out her own theory on marriage, which will probably be hereafter expounded in these pages, so that she was not at all shocked by having his advantages thus pointed out to her. But there was no hurry, she said to herself. If it was not Clarence Copperhead, it would be some one else, and why should she, at this early stage of her career, attempt to precipitate the designs of Providence? She had plenty of time before her, and was in no hurry for any change; and a genuine touch of nature in her heart made her anxious for an opportunity of showing her independence to that arrogant and offensive “leading member,” who made the life of the office-bearers in the Crescent a burden to them. If she could only so drive him into a corner, that he should be obliged to come to her in his despair, and beg her to accept his son’s hand to save him from going off in a galloping consumption, that would have been a triumph after Phœbe’s heart. To be sure this was a perfectly vain and wildly romantic hope⁠—it was the only bit of wild and girlish romance in the bosom of a very well-educated, well-intentioned, and sensible young woman. She had seen her parents put up with the arrogance of the millionnaire for a long time without rebelling any more than they did; but <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Copperhead had gone further than Phœbe could bear; and thoroughly as she understood her own position, and all its interests, this one vain fancy had found a footing in her mind. If she could but humble him and make him sue to her. It was not likely, but for such a triumph the sensible Phœbe would have done much. It was the one point on which she was silly, but on that she was as silly as any cynic could desire.</p>
			<p>And thus with a huge trunk full of charming dresses, a dressing-case fit for any bride, the prettiest travelling costume imaginable, and everything about her fit, <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Beecham fondly thought, for a duke’s daughter, Phœbe junior took her departure, to be the comfort of her grandmamma, and to dazzle Carlingford. Her fond parents accompanied her to the station and placed her in a carriage, and fee’d a guard heavily to take care of and watch over her. “Not but that Phœbe might be safely trusted to take care of herself anywhere,” they said. In which expression of their pride in their daughter, the observant reader may see a proof of their own origin from the humbler classes. They would probably have prided themselves on her timidity and helplessness had they been a little better born.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
