<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XXXIII: A Disclosure</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-33" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXIII</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">A Disclosure</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>“Well, young ladies!” said <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Sam Hurst, “I left you very quiet, but there seems to be plenty going on nowadays. What a beautiful moon there was last night! I put up my window to look at it, and all at once I found there was a party going on below. Quite a fête champêtre. I have newly come from abroad, you know, and it seemed quite congenial. I actually rubbed my eyes, and said to myself, ‘I can’t have come home. It’s Boulogne still, it isn’t Carlingford!’ ”</p>
			<p>“There was no company,” said Ursula with dignity; “there was only our own party. A friend of Reginald’s and a friend of mine join us often in the evening, and there is papa’s pupil⁠—if you call that a party. We are just as quiet as when you went away. We never invite strangers. We are as much by ourselves as ever.”</p>
			<p>“With a friend of Reginald’s, and a friend of yours, and papa’s pupil!” said <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Hurst, laughing; “double your own number, Ursula! and I don’t suppose Janey counts yet. Why, there is a young man too many. How dare you waste the gifts of Providence, you prodigal child? And now let me hear who they are.”</p>
			<p>“You may say Janey doesn’t count,” cried that young woman in person. “Oh, <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Hurst, what a bore they are! If that’s society, I don’t care for society. One always following Ursula about whenever she moves, so that you can’t say a word to her; and the others pulling poor Phoebe to pieces, who hates them, I am sure. Phoebe was so jolly at first. She would talk to you, or she would play for you! Why, she taught Johnnie and me a part-song to sing with her, and said he had a delightful voice; but she never has any time to look at us now,” said Janey, stopping in this breathless enumeration of wrongs. “She is always taken up with those horrible men.”</p>
			<p>“I suppose you call Reginald a horrible man?” said Ursula, with rising colour. “If that was my opinion of my own brother, I should take care not to say it, at least.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, Reginald isn’t the worst! There’s your <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Northcote, and there’s that Copperhead⁠—Woodenhead, we call him in the nursery. Oh, how papa can put up with him, I can’t tell! he never had any patience with us. You can’t think how dull he is, <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Hurst! I suppose girls don’t mind when a man <em>goes on</em>, whether he’s stupid or not. I never heard <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Northcote say much that was interesting either; but he looks clever, and that is always something.”</p>
			<p>“So <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Northcote is Ursula’s one,” said <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Hurst, laughing. “You are a perfect jewel, Janey, and I don’t know how I should ever find out anything that’s going on, but for you. Northcote! it is a new name in Carlingford. I wonder I have not heard of him already; or have you kept him entirely to yourself, and let nobody know that there was a new man in the place?”</p>
			<p>There was a little pause here. The girls knew nothing about Northcote, except the one fact that he was a Dissenter; but as <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Hurst was an excellent Churchwoman, much better than they were, who had, perhaps, been brought up too completely under the shadow of the Church to believe in it implicitly, they hesitated before pronouncing before her that unfortunate name.</p>
			<p>“I don’t know whether you are aware,” Ursula said at last, with some slowness and reluctance, “that papa’s pupil is of a Dissenting family. He is related, through his mother, to our cousins, the Dorsets.” (This fact Ursula put forth with a little triumph, as refuting triumphantly any ready conclusion as to the social standing of Dissenters.) “I think <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Northcote came first to the house with <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Copperhead. He is a Dissenter too.”</p>
			<p>“Why, Ursula,” cried <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Hurst, “not the man who attacked Reginald in the Meeting? It was all in the papers. He made a frightful violent speech about the College and the sinecure, and what a disgraceful thing it was that your brother, a young man, could accept it. You don’t mean him?”</p>
			<p>Ursula was struck dumb. She looked up at her questioner with her lips falling apart a little, with a look of mingled consternation and fear.</p>
			<p>“Of course it can’t be,” said the gossip, who was not ill-natured. “You never read the papers, but your papa does, and so does Reginald. Oh, you may be sure it is some other Northcote, though I don’t know the name.”</p>
			<p>“Ursula doesn’t like to tell you,” said Janey; “but he’s the Dissenting Minister, I know he is. Well! I don’t care! He is just as good as anybody else. I don’t go in for your illiberal ways of thinking, as if no one was worth talking to except in the Church. <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Northcote is very nice. I don’t mind what you say. Do you mean to tell me that all those curates and people who used to plague our lives out were nicer? <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Saunders, for instance; he is a real good Churchman, I have always heard people say⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Hold your tongue, Janey; you don’t know anything about it,” said <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Hurst, whom this wonderful disclosure elevated into authority. “A Dissenting Minister! Ah, me! what a thing it is for you poor girls to have no mother. I did not think your papa would have had so little consideration as to expose you to society like that. But men are so thoughtless.”</p>
			<p>“I don’t know what right you have to speak of exposing us to society like that,” cried Ursula, quivering all over with sudden excitement.</p>
			<p>She felt as if someone had dug a knife into her, and turned it round in the wound.</p>
			<p>“Men have so little consideration,” repeated <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Hurst, “especially when a girl is concerned. Though how your papa could have received a man who made such an assault upon him⁠—even if he had passed over the attack upon Reginald, he was attacked himself.”</p>
			<p>“It must be a mistake,” said Ursula, growing pale. Her hands came together half-unconsciously, and clasped in a mute gesture of appeal. “It is not possible; it cannot be true.”</p>
			<p>“Well, it is very odd that your papa should show such charity, I allow. I don’t think it is in human nature. And Reginald, what does Reginald say? If it is that man, it will be the strangest thing I ever heard of. But there could not be two Northcotes, Dissenting Ministers in Carlingford, could there? It is very strange. I can’t think what your papa can have had in his head. He is a man who would do a thing for a deep reason, whether he liked it or not. How did this <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Northcote come first here?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, it was through <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Copperhead,” said Janey. “It was the first dinner-party we had. You should have seen the fright Ursula was in! And papa would not let me come to dinner, which was a horrid shame. I am sure I am big enough, bigger than Ursula.”</p>
			<p>“If he came with the pupil, that makes it all quite plain. I suppose your papa did not want to quarrel with his pupil. What a predicament for him, if that was the case! Poor <abbr>Mr.</abbr> May! Of course, he did not want to be uncivil. Why, it was in the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Gazette</i>, and the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Express</i>, and all the papers; an account of the Meeting, and that speech, and then a leading article upon it. I always file the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Express</i>, so you can see it if you like. But what an embarrassment for your poor papa, Ursula, that you should have taken this man up! And Reginald, how could he put up with it, a touchy young man, always ready to take offence? You see now the drawback of not paying a little attention to what is going on round you. How uncomfortable you must have made them! It might be very well to look over an offence, not to be unpleasant to the stranger; but that you should have thoughtlessly led this man on into the position of an intimate⁠—”</p>
			<p>“I did nothing of the sort,” cried Ursula, growing red and growing pale, starting up from her work with a sense of the intolerable which she could not restrain. “What have I done to be spoken of so? I never led him on, or anyone. What you say is cruel, very cruel! and it is not true.”</p>
			<p>“Isn’t it true that he was here last night, following you about, as Janey says? Oh, I know how these sort of things go on. But you ought to think of your papa’s position, and you ought to think of Reginald. If it was to come to the Bishop’s ears that <abbr>St.</abbr> Roque’s Parsonage was a refuge for Dissenters! For I know who <em>your</em> friend is, Ursula! That Tozer girl, another of them! Indeed, I assure you, it makes me feel very uncomfortable. And Reginald, just at the very beginning of his career.”</p>
			<p>Ursula did not make any reply. She bent her head down over her work, so low that her flushed cheeks could scarcely be seen, and went on stitching with energy and passion such as needles and thread are seldom the instruments of; and yet how much passion is continually worked away through needles and thread! <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Hurst sat still for some time, looking at her, very little satisfied to keep silence, but feeling that she had discharged an efficient missile, and biting her lips not to say more to weaken its effect. When some time had passed in this way, and it was apparent that Ursula had no intention of breaking the silence, her visitor got up and shook out her skirts with a little flutter of indignation.</p>
			<p>“You are offended,” she said, “though I must say it is very ill on your part to be offended. What motive can I have but your good, and regard for your poor dear papa? It is he that is always the victim, poor man, whether it is your vagaries he has to pay for, or Reginald’s high-flying. Oh, yes; you may be as angry as you like, Ursula; but you will find out the difference if your encouragement of this Dissenter interferes with something better⁠—a living for Reginald, perhaps, or better preferment for your poor papa.”</p>
			<p>“Oh!” cried Janey, awestricken; “but after all, it was not Ursula; it was papa himself. I think he must have done it to please <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Copperhead; for, <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Hurst, you know <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Copperhead is very important. We have all to give in to him. He pays papa three hundred a-year.”</p>
			<p>“Three thousand wouldn’t make up for it if it spoilt all your career,” cried the indignant woman, and she swept away without saying any more to Ursula, who kept quite still over her work without budging. Janey went downstairs meekly after her to open the door, whispering an entreaty that she would not be angry.</p>
			<p>“No, no, I am not angry,” said <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Hurst, “but I shall keep it up for a day or two. It is the best thing for her. I think she was struck with what I said.”</p>
			<p>Janey stole upstairs again, feeling rather guilty; but Ursula took little notice of her. The dinner was ordered and everything settled for the day. She was busy with her week’s mending and darning, with the stockings and other things in a big basket beside her. When she came to some articles belonging to Janey, she threw them out with great impatience.</p>
			<p>“You may surely mend your things yourself, you are big enough. You can talk for yourself and me too,” cried Ursula with sudden impetuosity; and then she sat and worked, her needle flying through the meshes of her darning, though it is hard to darn stockings in that impassioned way. They were socks of Johnnie’s, however, with holes in the heels that you could put your fist through, and the way in which the big spans filled themselves up under this influence was wonderful to see. Janey, who was not fond of mending, set to work quite humbly under the influence of this example, and made two or three attempts to begin a conversation but without avail.</p>
			<p>The girls were seated thus in a disturbed and restless silence, working as if for their lives, when the usual little jar of the gate and sound of the bell downstairs announced a visitor. On ordinary occasions, they were both in the habit of rushing to the window when the gate was opened to see who was coming, and Janey had thrown aside her work to do so when a look from Ursula stopped her. High-spirited as Janey was, she did not dare to disobey that look. By right of the passion that had got possession of her, Ursula took the absolute command of the situation in a way she had never done before, and some sudden intuition made her aware who it was who was coming. The girls both sat there still and breathless, waiting for his appearance. He never came in the day, never had been seen in the Parsonage at that hour before, and yet Ursula was as certain who it was as if she had seen him a mile off. He came into the room, himself looking a little breathless and disturbed, and gave a quick impatient look at Janey as he went up to her sister. Ursula saw it and understood well enough. Janey was in his way; he had come this morning with a special purpose. Her heart sank down to her very shoes, and then rose again with a feverish and unreal leap. Was it not her duty to take the initiative, to cut away the very ground from beneath his feet? He took a seat, not far from where she was sitting, and made an effort to begin a little ordinary conversation, throwing frequent glances at Janey. He said it was a fine day, which was self-evident; that he almost feared they would be out; that he had come to⁠—to tell her something he had forgotten last night, about⁠—yes, about⁠—Cassiopeia’s chair, to correct what he said about Orion⁠—yes, that was it; and again he looked at Janey, who saw his looks, and wondered much what she ought to do⁠—go away, as he evidently wished her, or stay and listen, which was the eager desire of her mind. When Ursula lifted her head from her darning, and looked at him with cheeks alternately white and crimson, Janey felt herself grow hot and breathless with kindred excitement, and knew that the moment had come.</p>
			<p>“<abbr>Mr.</abbr> Northcote,” said Ursula, looking at him fixedly, so fixedly that a nervous trembling ran over him, “I have a question to ask you. You have been coming to us very often, and perhaps papa may know, but I don’t. Is it true that you made a speech about Reginald when you first came here?”</p>
			<p>Janey, looking eagerly on, saw Northcote grow pale, nay, grey in the fresh daylight. The colour seemed to ebb out of him. He started very slightly, as if waking up, when she began to speak, and then sat looking at her, growing greyer and greyer. A moment elapsed before he made any reply.</p>
			<p>“Yes, I did,” he said, with a half-groan of pain in his voice.</p>
			<p>“You did! really you did! Oh!” cried Ursula, the hot tears falling suddenly out of her eyes, while she still looked at him, “I was hoping that it was all some horrible mistake, that you would have laughed. I hoped you would laugh and say no.”</p>
			<p>Northcote cleared his throat; they were waiting for him to defend himself. Janey, holding herself on the leash, as it were, keeping herself back from springing upon him like a hound. Ursula gazed at him with great blazing reproachful eyes; and all he could do was to give that sign of embarrassment, of guilt, and confusion. He could not utter a word. By the time he had got himself wound up to the point of speech, Ursula, impatient, had taken the words out of his mouth.</p>
			<p>“Reginald is my brother,” she said. “Whatever is against him is against us all; we have never had any separate interests. Didn’t you think it strange, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Northcote, to come to this house, among us all, when you had been so unkind to him?”</p>
			<p>“Miss May⁠—”</p>
			<p>He made a broken sort of outcry and motion of his head, and then cleared his throat nervously once more.</p>
			<p>“Did you think how your own brothers and sisters would have stood up for you? that it would have been an offence to them if anybody had come to the house who was not a friend to you? that they would have had a right⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Miss May,” said the culprit; “all this I have felt to the bottom of my heart; that I was here on false pretences⁠—that I had no right to be here. But this painful feeling was all quenched and extinguished, and turned into gratitude by the goodness of your father and brother. I did not even know that you had not been told. I thought you were aware from the beginning. You were colder than they were, and I thought it was natural, quite natural, for it is easier to forgive for one’s self than for those one loves; and then I thought you melted and grew kinder to me, that you saw how all my ideas were changed, all my feelings⁠—my mind itself; changed by the great charity, the wonderful goodness I have found here!”</p>
			<p>“<abbr>Mr.</abbr> Northcote!” Ursula had been struggling to break in all the time; but while he spoke her words dispersed, her feelings softened, and at the end she found nothing but that startled repetition of his name with which to answer him. No doubt if he had given her time the eloquence would have come back; but he was too much in earnest to be guilty of such a mistake.</p>
			<p>“What can I say about it?” cried the young man. “It has filled me with shame and with happiness. I have been taken in my own trap⁠—those whom I attacked as you say⁠—went out of my way to attack, and abused like a fool because I knew nothing about them⁠—have shown me what the Bible means. Your father and brother knew what I had done, they met me separately, quite independent of each other, and both of them held out their hands to me; why, except that I had offended them, I cannot tell. A stranger, belonging to an obscure class, I had no claim upon them except that I had done what ought to have closed their house against me. And you know how they have interpreted that. They have shown me what the Bible means.”</p>
			<p>The two girls sat listening, both with their heads bent towards him, and their eyes fixed upon his face. When he stopped, Janey got up with her work in her lap, and coming a little nearer to Ursula, addressed her in a wondering voice.</p>
			<p>“Is it <em>papa</em> he is talking of like that?” she said, under her breath.</p>
			<p>“Yes,” he said, fervently, turning to her. “It is your father. He has made charity and kindness real things to me.”</p>
			<p>“Poor papa!” said Ursula, whose tears were arrested in her eyes by the same surprised sensation, half-pleasure, half-pain, which hushed even Janey’s voice. They were “struck,” as <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Hurst had said, but by such a strange mingling of feelings that neither knew what to make of them. Northcote did not understand what they meant; their words conveyed a slight shock of surprise, but no distinct idea to him; and when Janey, too much impressed to settle down again, went away after a while musingly, carrying her work in the upper skirt of her gown, held like a market-woman’s apron by her elbow against her side; and he found himself to have attained in the very confusion of his intentions to what he wished, <abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">i.e.</abbr>, an interview with Ursula by herself, he was almost too much agitated to take advantage of it. As for Ursula, she had floated a hundred miles away from that sensation of last night which, had no stronger feeling come in to bewilder her, would have made his errand very plain to her mind. She had ceased to think about him, she was thinking with a certain tenderness, and wondering, half-awed, half-amused, self-questioning, about her father. Was he so good as this? had he done this Christian action? were they all perhaps doing papa injustice? She was recalled to herself by Northcote’s next proceeding. He went to the door and closed it after Janey, who had left it open, of course, and then he came to the back of the chair on which stood the great basket of darning. His voice was tremulous, his eyes liquid and shining with emotion.</p>
			<p>“Will you forgive me, since they have forgiven me? and may I ask <em>you</em> something?” he said.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
