<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XXIV: A Visit</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-24" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXIV</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">A Visit</p>
			</hgroup>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">Dear May,</p>
				<p>Young Copperhead, the young fellow whom you have undertaken to coach, is coming to the Hall for a few days before he enters upon his studies, and Anne wishes me to ask you to come over on Tuesday to dine and sleep, and to make acquaintance with him. You can carry him back with you if it suits you. In my private opinion, he is a cub of the most disagreeable kind; but the girls like his mother, who is a kind of cousin, as you know. It is not only because he has failed to take his degree (you know how I hate the hideous slang in which this fact is generally stated), but that his father, who is one of the rich persons who abound in the lower circles of society, is ambitious, and would like to see him in Parliament, and that sort of thing⁠—a position which cannot be held creditably without some sort of education: at least, so I am myself disposed to think. Therefore, your pleasing duty will be to get him up in a little history and geography, so that he may not get quite hopelessly wrong in any of the modern modifications of territory, for instance; and in so much Horace as may furnish him with a few stock quotations, in case he should be called upon, in the absence of any more hopeful neophyte, to move the Address. He is a great hulking fellow, not very brilliant, you may suppose, but not so badly mannered as he might be, considering his parentage. I don’t think he’ll give you much trouble in the house; but he will most probably bore you to death, and in that case your family ought to have a claim, I should think, for compensation. Anyhow, come and see him, and us, before you begin your hard task.</p>
				<footer role="presentation">
					<p epub:type="z3998:valediction">Very truly yours,</p>
					<p epub:type="z3998:sender z3998:signature"><abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">R.</abbr> Dorset.</p>
					<p epub:type="z3998:postscript">Anne makes me open my letter to say that Ursula must come too. We will send a carriage to meet you at the station.</p>
				</footer>
			</blockquote>
			<p>This letter caused considerable excitement in the Parsonage. It was the first invitation to dinner which Ursula had ever received. The dinner-parties in Carlingford were little frequented by young ladies. The male population was not large enough to afford a balance for the young women of the place, who came together in the evening, and took all the trouble of putting on their pretty white frocks, only to sit in rows in the drawing-room, waiting till the old gentlemen came in from the dining-room, after which everybody went away. There were no young gentlemen to speak of in Carlingford, so that when anyone was bold enough to attempt a dancing-party, or anything of an equally amusing description, friends were sent out in all directions, as the beaters are sent into the woods to bring together the unfortunate birds for a battue, to find men. These circumstances will explain the flutter in Ursula’s innocent bosom when her father read her that postscript. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> May was singularly amiable that day, a thing which happened at periodical intervals, usually after he had been specially “cross.” On this occasion there was no black mark against him in the family reckoning, and yet he was more kind than anyone had ever known him. Instead of making any objections, he decided at once that Ursula must go, and told her to put on her prettiest frock, and make herself look very nice.</p>
			<p>“You must let Anne Dorset see that you care to please her,” he said. “Anne is a very good woman, and her approval is worth having.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, papa!” cried Janey, “when you are always calling her an old maid!”</p>
			<p>“<i xml:lang="fr">L’un n’empêche pas l’autre</i>,” he said, which puzzled Janey, whose French was very deficient. Even Ursula, supposed to be the best French scholar in the family, was not quite sure what it meant; but it was evidently something in favour of Cousin Anne, which was sweet to the grateful girl.</p>
			<p>Janey, though suffering bitterly under the miserable consciousness of being only fourteen, and not asked anywhere, helped with disinterested zeal to get her sister ready, and consoled herself by orders for unlimited muffins and cake for tea.</p>
			<p>“There will only be the children,” she said, resignedly, and felt herself <i xml:lang="fr">incomprise</i>; but indeed, the attractions of a good romp afterwards, no one being in the house to restrain the spirits of the youthful party, made even Janey amends.</p>
			<p>As for Reginald, who was not asked, he was, it must be allowed, rather sulky too, and he could not solace himself either with muffins or romps. His rooms at the College were very pleasant rooms, but he was used to home; and though the home at the Parsonage was but faded, and not in such perfect order as it might have been, the young man felt even his wainscoted study dull without the familiar voices, the laughter and foolish family jokes, and even the little quarrels which kept life always astir. He walked with Ursula to the station, whither her little box with her evening dress had gone before her, in a half-affronted state of mind.</p>
			<p>“What does he want with a pupil?” Reginald was saying, as he had said before. “A fellow no one knows, coming and taking possession of the house as if it belonged to him. There is plenty to do in the parish without pupils, and if I were not on the spot he would get into trouble, I can tell you. A man that has been ploughed, ‘a big hulking fellow’ (Sir Robert says so, not I). Mind, I’ll have no flirting, Ursula; that is what always happens with a pupil in the house.”</p>
			<p>“Reginald, how dare you⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Oh, yes, I dare; my courage is quite equal to facing you, even if you do shoot thunderbolts out of your eyes. Mind you, I won’t have it. There is a set of fellows who try it regularly, and if you were above them, would go in for Janey; and it would be great fun and great promotion for Janey; she would feel herself a woman directly; so you must mind her as well as yourself. I don’t like it at all,” Reginald went on. “Probably he will complain of the dinners you give him, as if he were in an inn. Confound him! What my father means by it, I can’t tell.”</p>
			<p>“Reginald, you ought not to swear,” said Ursula. “It is dreadfully wicked in a clergyman. Poor papa meant making a little more money. What else could he mean? And I think it is very good of him, for it will bother him most. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Copperhead is very nice, Reginald. I saw him in London, you know. I thought he was very ⸻.”</p>
			<p>“Ah! oh!” said Reginald, “I forgot that. You met him in London? To be sure, and it was there you met Miss Beecham. I begin to see. Is he coming here after her, I should like to know? She doesn’t look the sort of girl to encourage that sort of thing.”</p>
			<p>“The sort of girl to encourage that sort of thing! How strangely you talk when you get excited: isn’t that rather vulgar? I don’t know if he is coming after Miss Beecham or not,” said Ursula, who thought the suggestion uncalled for, “but in a very short time you can judge for yourself.”</p>
			<p>“Ah⁠—indignation!” said the big brother, who like most big brothers laughed at Ursula’s exhibition of offended dignity; “and, by the way, Miss Beecham⁠—you have not seen her since that night when she was sent for. Will not she think it strange that you never sent to inquire?”</p>
			<p>“I sent Betsey⁠—”</p>
			<p>“But if Miss Beecham had been somebody else, you would have gone yourself,” he said, being in a humour for finding fault. “If poor old <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Tozer had been what you call a lady⁠—”</p>
			<p>“I thought you were much more strong than I am against the Dissenters?” said Ursula, “ever since that man’s speech; and, indeed, always, as long as I can recollect.”</p>
			<p>“She is not a mere Dissenter,” said Reginald. “I think I shall call as I go home. She is the cleverest girl I ever met; not like one of you bread-and-butter girls, though she is not much older than you. A man finds a girl like that worth talking to,” said the young clergyman, holding himself erect. Certainly Reginald had not improved; he had grown ever so much more self-important since he got a living of his own.</p>
			<p>“And if I was to say, ‘Mind, I won’t have it, Reginald?’ ” cried Ursula, half-laughing, half-angry. “I think that is a great deal worse than a pupil. But Miss Beecham is very dignified, and you may be sure she will not think much of a call from you. Heaven be praised! that is one thing you can’t get into your hands; we girls are always good for something there. Men may think themselves as grand as they please,” said Ursula, “but their visits are of no consequence; it is ladies of the family who must <em>call</em>!” After this little outbreak, she came down at once to her usual calm. “I will ask Cousin Anne what I ought to do; I don’t think Miss Beecham wanted me to go then⁠—”</p>
			<p>“I shall go,” said Reginald, and he left Ursula in her father’s keeping, who met them at the station, and went off at once, with a pleasant sense of having piqued her curiosity, to Grange Lane.</p>
			<p>It was still early, for the trains which stopped at the little country station next to the Hall were very few and inconvenient, and the sun, though setting, was still shining red from over <abbr>St.</abbr> Roque’s upon Grange Lane. The old red walls grew redder still in the frosty night, and the sky began to bloom into great blazing patches of colour upon the wintry clearness of the blue. There was going to be a beautiful sunset, and such a thing was always to be seen from Grange Lane better than anywhere else in Carlingford. Reginald went down the road slowly, looking at it, and already almost forgetting his idea of calling on Miss Beecham. To call on Miss Beecham would be to call on old Tozer, the butterman, to whom alone the visit would be naturally paid; and this made him laugh within himself. So he would have passed, no doubt, without the least attempt at intruding on the privacy of the Tozers, had not the garden-door opened before he got so far, and Phoebe herself came out, with her hands in her muff, to take a little walk up and down as she did daily. She did not take her hand out of its warm enclosure to give it to him; but nodded with friendly ease in return to his salutation.</p>
			<p>“I have come out to see the sunset,” said Phoebe; “I like a little air before the day is over, and grandmamma, when she is poorly, likes her room to be very warm.”</p>
			<p>“I hope <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Tozer is better. I hope you have not been anxious.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, no! it is chronic; there is no danger. But she requires a great deal of attendance; and I like to come out when I can. Oh, how fine it is! what colour! I think, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> May, you must have a <i xml:lang="fr">spécialité</i> for sunsets at Carlingford. I never saw them so beautiful anywhere else.”</p>
			<p>“I am glad there is something you like in Carlingford.”</p>
			<p>“Something! there is a very great deal; and that I don’t like too,” she said with a smile. “I don’t care for the people I am living among, which is dreadful. I don’t suppose you have ever had such an experience, though you must know a great deal more in other ways than I. All the people that come to inquire about grandmamma are very kind; they are as good as possible; I respect them, and all that, but⁠—Well, it must be my own fault, or education. It is education, no doubt, that gives us those absurd ideas.”</p>
			<p>“Don’t call them absurd,” said Reginald, “indeed I can enter into them perfectly well. I don’t <em>know</em> them, perhaps, in my own person; but I can perfectly understand the repugnance, the distress⁠—”</p>
			<p>“The words are too strong,” said Phoebe, “not so much as that; the⁠—annoyance, perhaps, the nasty disagreeable struggle with one’s self and one’s pride; as if one were better than other people. I dislike myself, and despise myself for it; but I can’t help it. We have so little power over ourselves.”</p>
			<p>“I hope you will let my sister do what she can to deliver you,” said Reginald; “Ursula is not like you; but she is a good little thing, and she is able to appreciate you. I was to tell you she had been called suddenly off to the Dorsets’, with whom my father and she have gone to pass the night⁠—to meet, I believe, a person you know.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, Clarence Copperhead; he is come then? How odd it will be to see him here. His mother is nice, but his father is⁠—Oh, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> May! if you only knew the things people have to put up with. When I think of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Copperhead, and his great, ugly, staring wealth, I feel disposed to hate money⁠—especially among Dissenters. It would be better if we were all poor.”</p>
			<p>Reginald said nothing; he thought so too. In that case there would be a few disagreeable things out of a poor clergyman’s way, and assaults like that of Northcote upon himself would be impossible; but he could scarcely utter these virtuous sentiments.</p>
			<p>“Poverty is the desire of ascetics, and this is not an ascetic age,” he said at length, with a half-laugh at himself for his stiff speech.</p>
			<p>“You may say it is not an ascetic age; but yet I suppose the Ritualists⁠—. Perhaps you are a Ritualist yourself, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> May? I know as little personally about the church here, as you do about Salem Chapel. I like the service⁠—so does papa⁠—and I like above all things the independent standing of a clergyman; the feeling he must have that he is free to do his duty. That is why I like the church; for other things of course I like our own body best.”</p>
			<p>“I don’t suppose such things can be argued about, Miss Beecham. I wish I knew something of my father’s new pupil. I don’t like having a stranger in the house; my father is fond of having his own way.”</p>
			<p>“It is astonishing how often parents are so,” said Phoebe, demurely; “and the way they talk of their experience! as if each new generation did not know more than the one that preceded it.”</p>
			<p>“You are pleased to laugh, but I am quite in earnest. A pupil is a nuisance. For instance, no man who has a family should ever take one. I know what things are said.”</p>
			<p>“You mean about the daughters? That is true enough, there are always difficulties in the way; but you need not be afraid of Clarence Copperhead. He is not the fascinating pupil of a church-novel. There’s nothing the least like the Heir of Redclyffe about him.”</p>
			<p>“You are very well up in Miss Yonge’s novels, Miss Beecham.”</p>
			<p>“Yes,” said Phoebe; “one reads Scott for Scotland (and a few other things), and one reads Miss Yonge for the church. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Trollope is good for that too, but not so good. All that I know of clergymen’s families I have got from her. I can recognize you quite well, and your sister, but the younger ones puzzle me; they are not in Miss Yonge; they are too much like other children, too naughty. I don’t mean anything disagreeable. The babies in Miss Yonge are often very naughty too, but not the same. As for you, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> May⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Yes. As for me?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, I know everything about you. You are a fine scholar, but you don’t like the drudgery of teaching. You have a fine mind, but it interferes with you continually. You have had a few doubts⁠—just enough to give a piquancy; and now you have a great ideal, and mean to do many things that common clergymen don’t think of. That was why you hesitated about the chaplaincy? See how much I have got out of Miss Yonge. I know you as well as if I had known you all my life; a great deal better than I know Clarence Copperhead; but then, no person of genius has taken any trouble about him.”</p>
			<p>“I did not know I had been a hero of fiction,” said Reginald, who had a great mind to be angry. All this time they were walking briskly backward and forward before Tozer’s open door, the Anglican, in his long black coat, following the lively movements of Tozer’s granddaughter, only because he could not help himself. He was irritated, yet he was pleased. A young man is pleased to be thought of, even when the notice is but barely complimentary. Phoebe must have thought of him a good deal before she found him out in this way; but he was irritated all the same.</p>
			<p>“You are, however,” she answered lightly. “Look at that blaze of crimson, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> May; and the blue which is so clear and so unfathomable. Winter is grander than summer, and even warmer⁠—to look at; with its orange, and purple, and gold. What poor little dirty, dingy things we are down here, to have all this exhibited every evening for our delight!”</p>
			<p>“That is true,” he said; and as he gazed, something woke in the young man’s heart⁠—a little thrill of fancy, if not of love. It is hard to look at a beautiful sunset, and then see it reflected in a girl’s face, and not to feel something⁠—which may be nothing, perhaps. His heart gave a small jump, not much to speak of. Phoebe did not talk like the other young ladies in Grange Lane.</p>
			<p>“<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> May, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> May!” she cried suddenly, “please go away! I foresee a disastrous encounter which alarms me. You can’t fight, but there is no saying what you might do to each other. Please go away!”</p>
			<p>“What is the matter?” he said. “I don’t understand any encounter being disastrous here. Why should I go away?”</p>
			<p>She laughed, but there was a certain fright in her tone. “Please!” she said, “I see <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Northcote coming this way. He will stop to speak to me. It is the gentleman who attacked you in the Meeting. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> May,” she added entreatingly, between laughter and fright, “do go, please.”</p>
			<p>“I shall do nothing of the kind,” said Reginald, roused; “I am not afraid. Let him come on. This wall shall fly from its firm base as soon as I.”</p>
			<p>Phoebe clasped her hands in dismay, which was partially real. “The typical churchman,” she said, with a glance at Reginald’s figure, which was not displeasing to him, “and the typical Dissenter! and what am I to do between them? Oh, I wish you would go away.”</p>
			<p>“Not an inch,” said the young champion. Phoebe was frightened, but she was delighted. “I shall introduce him to you,” she said threatening.</p>
			<p>“I don’t mind,” he replied; “nothing on earth should induce me to fly.”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
