<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XLI</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-41" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XLI</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">A Morning’s Work</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>“Go and lie down for an hour,” whispered Phœbe. “I am not sleepy at all. I have sat up before, and never felt it, you never did, I can see it in your poor little white face; and besides, I am steadier, because I am not so anxious. Now go, Ursula, if you are really fond of me, as you say⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Oh, Phœbe! if you think he is a little better. Oh, how horrible it is to be sleepy, as if you were all body, and had no heart at all!”</p>
			<p>“You have plenty of heart, but you have never been used to this nursing. Leave your door open, so that I may call you in a moment. I have sat up often. Now go, to please me,” said Phœbe. She had another object than mere rest to her friend, who at last, very much ashamed and crying softly, yet so weary that nothing on this earth seemed so desirable to her as sleep, crept to her room, and lay down there as the pale morning began to dawn. Betsy slept heavily in an easy-chair outside the door of the sick-room. She was there at hand in case anything was wanted, but she was happily unconscious where she was, sleeping the sleep of hard work and a mind undisturbed. Phœbe had seen that the patient was stirring out of the dull doze in which his faculties had been entirely stilled and stupefied. He was rousing to uneasiness, if not to full consciousness. Two or three times he made a convulsive movement, as if to raise himself; once his eyes, which were half open, seemed to turn upon her with a vague glimmer of meaning. How strangely she felt towards him, as she sat there in the grey of the morning, sole guardian, sole confidant of this erring and miserable man! The thought ran through her with a strange thrill. He was nothing to her, and yet he was absolutely in her power, and in all heaven and earth there seemed no one who was capable of protecting him, or cared to do so, except herself only. She sat looking at him with a great pity in her mind, determined to be his true protector, to deliver him from what he himself had done. She had not realized at first what it was he had done, and indeed it was only now that its full enormity, or rather its full consequences (which were the things that affected her most urgently), made themselves apparent to her. Generalizations are unsafe things; and whether it was because she was a woman that Phœbe, passing over the crime, fixed her thoughts upon the punishment, I do not venture to say; but she did so. After all a few lines of writing on a bit of paper is not a crime which affects the imagination of the inexperienced. Had it been a malicious slander Phœbe would have realized the sin of it much more clearly; but the copy of her grandfather’s signature did not wound her moral sense in the same way, though it was a much more serious offence. That <abbr>Mr.</abbr> May could have intended to rob him of the money appeared impossible to her; and no doubt the borrowing of the signature was wrong⁠—very wrong. Yes, of course it was horribly, fatally wrong; but still it did not set her imagination aglow with indignant horror, as smaller affairs might have done. But the consequences⁠—disgrace, ruin, the loss of his position, the shame of his profession, moral death indeed, almost as frightful as if he had been hanged for murder. She shivered as she sat by him, veiled by the curtain, and thought of her grandfather’s vindictive fierceness; only she stood between him and destruction, and Phœbe felt that it was by no legitimate means that she was doing so, not by her influence over her grandfather as she had hoped, but only by an unjustifiable expedient which in itself was a kind of crime. This, however, brought a slight smile on her face. She took out her little purse from her pocket, and looked at the bit of paper carefully folded in it. The faint perfume of the Russia leather had already communicated itself to the document, which had not been so pleasant in Tozer’s hands. As she looked at it lying peacefully on her lap, her attention was suddenly called by the patient, who sat upright and looked furtively about him, with his hand upon the coverings ready to throw them off. His ghastly white face peered at her from behind the curtain with wild eagerness⁠—then relaxed, when he met her eye, into a kind of idiot smile, a painful attempt to divert suspicion, and he fell back again with a groan. The trance that had stupefied him was over; he had recovered some kind of consciousness, how much or how little she could not tell. His mind now seemed to be set upon hiding himself, drawing his coverings over him, and concealing himself with the curtain, at which he grasped with an excess of force which neutralized itself.</p>
			<p>“<abbr>Mr.</abbr> May,” said Phœbe, softly. “<abbr>Mr.</abbr> May! do you know me?”</p>
			<p>She could not tell what answer he made, or if he made any answer. He crouched down under the bed-clothes, pulling them over his face, trying to hide himself from her; from which she divined that he did recognize her, confused though his faculties were. Then a hoarse murmuring sound seemed to come out of the pillow. It was some time before she could make out what it was.</p>
			<p>“Where am I?” he said.</p>
			<p>With the lightning speed of sympathy and pity, Phœbe divined what his terror was. She said, almost whispering,</p>
			<p>“At home, in your own bed⁠—at home! and safe. Oh, don’t you know me⁠—I am Phœbe.” Then after a pause, “Tozer’s granddaughter; do you know me now?”</p>
			<p>The strange, scared, white-faced spectre shrank under his covering, till she could see no more of him except two wild eyes full of terror which was almost madness.</p>
			<p>“Listen!” she said eagerly, “try to understand! Oh, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> May, try to understand! I know about it⁠—I know everything, and you are safe⁠—quite safe; you need not have any fear!”</p>
			<p>He did not follow what she said, Phœbe perceived with pain and terror. Even the impression made by the first sight of her seemed to fade from his mind. His grasp relaxed upon the curtains and coverlet; and then the hoarse murmuring was resumed. Straining all her ears, she made out that he was not speaking to her or any one, but moaned to himself, saying the same words over and over again. It took her a long time to make out even what these words were. When at last she did make them out they filled the girl with an alarm beyond words.</p>
			<p>“It used to be hanging,” he said. “Hard labour; can I bear hard labour? And the children⁠—the children! Hard labour⁠—for life. Hanging⁠—was soon over. The children! I cannot bear it. I never was put to⁠—hard labour⁠—in all my life.”</p>
			<p>Phœbe was too sick at heart to listen to more. She drew a little apart, but near enough to be seen by him. If he chose to spring up, to fling himself from the window, as she had heard of men doing in delirium, who could restrain him? Not she, a slight girl, nor Betsy, even if Betsy could be roused to the danger. She did not know how long the vigil which followed lasted, but it seemed like years to her; and when at last she was relieved by the joyful sound of Reginald’s voice and footstep coming up the stairs, she felt disposed to run to the glass at once, and look if her hair had grown white, or her countenance permanently changed with the terror. Reginald, for his part, thought of his father in the second place only, as children are apt to do; he came up to her first, and with a thrill in his voice of surprise and emotion, addressed her hastily by her name.</p>
			<p>“Phœbe! is it <em>you</em> who are watching⁠—you, darling?”</p>
			<p>“Hush! I sent Ursula to bed; she was so tired. Don’t leave him. I am frightened,” cried Phœbe. “He is wandering in his mind. Oh, don’t leave him, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> May!”</p>
			<p>“I will do exactly as you tell me,” said Reginald, in a confused transport of feeling, the very anxiety in his mind helping to destroy his self-control. He stooped down and kissed her hands before she could divine what he was about to do. “Only you or an angel would have done it,” he cried, with a tremulous voice.</p>
			<p>Was it not natural that he should think that some thought of him had made Phœbe so careful of his father? His heart was swelling, too full to hold, with a sudden joy, which expanded the pain, and made that greater too.</p>
			<p>“Oh, what does it matter about me? <abbr>Mr.</abbr> May, think what I am saying. Don’t leave him for a moment. He might throw himself out of the window, he might do some harm to himself. Ah! again!” said Phœbe, trembling.</p>
			<p>But this time it was only a convulsive start, nothing more. The patient dropped down again softly upon his pillows, and relapsed into his doze, if doze it could be called, in which his faculties were but half-dormant, and his open eyes contradicted all the appearances of natural sleep.</p>
			<p>When she was relieved from the sick room⁠—and now she had a double motive in getting away⁠—Phœbe stole softly into the faded little place where Ursula lay, still fast asleep, though fully dressed, and bathed her face and strained eyes. “I wonder if my hair is grey underneath,” she said to herself. “I wonder nothing has happened to me.” But a great deal had happened to her. Such a night is rarely encountered by so young a creature, or such an alarming charge undertaken. And sudden hot kisses upon little, cold, agitated hands, worn by fatigue to nervous perception of every touch, are very exciting and strange to a girl. They had given her a kind of electric shock. She was not in love with Reginald, and therefore she felt it all the more, and her heart was still throbbing with the suddenness and excitement of the incident. And after she had made an effort to get over this, there remained upon her mind the disturbing burden of a knowledge which no one shared, and a responsibility which was very heavy and terrible, and too tremendous for her slight shoulders. After she had made that hasty toilette, she sat down for a moment at the foot of the bed on which Ursula lay sleeping, unconscious of all those mysteries, and tried to think. It is not an easy process at any time, but after a long night’s watching, terror, and agitation, it seemed more impossible to Phœbe than it had ever done before. And she had so much occasion for thought, so much need of the power of judging clearly. What was she to do?⁠—not to-morrow, or next week, but now. She had taken the responsibility of the whole upon herself by the sudden step she had taken last night; but, bold as she had been, Phœbe was ignorant. She did not know whether her theft of the bill would really stop the whole proceedings, as had seemed so certain last night; and what if she was found out, and compelled to return it, and all her labour lost! A panic took possession of her as she sat there at the foot of Ursula’s bed, and tried to think. But what is the use of trying to think? The more you have need of them, the more all mental processes fail you. Phœbe could no more think than she could fly. She sat down very seriously, and she rose up in despair, and, thought being no longer among her possibilities, resolved to do something at once, without further delay, which would be a consolation to herself at least. How wonderful it was to go out in the fresh early morning, and see the people moving about their work, going up and down with indifferent faces, quite unconcerned about the day and all it might bring forth! She went up Grange Lane with a curious uncertainty as to what she should do next, feeling her own extraordinary independence more than anything else. Phœbe felt like a man who has been out all night, who has his own future all in his hands, nobody having any right to explanation or information about what he may choose to do, or to expect from him anything beyond what he himself may please to give. Very few people are in this absolutely free position, but this was how Phœbe represented it to herself, having, like all other girls, unbounded belief in the independence and freedom possessed by men. Many times in her life she had regarded with envy this independence, which, with a sigh, she had felt to be impossible. But now that she had it, Phœbe did not like it. What she would have given to have gone to some one, almost any one, and told her dilemma, and put the burden a little off her shoulders! But she durst not say a word to any one. Very anxious and pre-occupied, she went up Grange Lane. Home? She did not know; perhaps she would have thought of something before she reached the gate of <abbr>No.</abbr> 6. And accordingly, when she had lifted her hand to ring the bell, and made a step aside to enter, an inspiration came to Phœbe. She turned away from the door and went on up into the town, cautiously drawing her veil over her face, for already the apprentices were taking down the shutters from her uncle’s shop, and she might be seen. Cotsdean’s shop was late of opening that morning, and its master was very restless and unhappy. He had heard nothing more about the bill, but a conviction of something wrong had crept into his mind. It was an altogether different sensation from the anxiety he had hitherto felt. This was no anxiety to speak of, but a dull pain and aching conviction that all was not right. When he saw the young lady entering the shop, Cotsdean’s spirits rose a little, for a new customer was pleasant, and though he thought he had seen her, he did not know who she was. She was pleasant to look upon, and it was not often that any one came so early. He came forward with anxious politeness; the boy (who was always late, and a useless creature, more expense than he was worth) had not appeared, and therefore Cotsdean was alone.</p>
			<p>“I wanted to speak to you, please,” said Phœbe. “Will you mind if I speak very plainly, without any ceremony? <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Cotsdean, I am <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Tozer’s granddaughter, and live with him at <abbr>No.</abbr> 6 in the Lane. I dare say you have often seen me with Miss May.”</p>
			<p>“Yes⁠—yes, Miss, certainly,” he said, with a thrill of alarm and excitement running through him. He felt his knees knock together under cover of the counter, and yet he did not know what he feared.</p>
			<p>“Will you please tell me frankly, in confidence, about⁠—⁠the bill which was brought to my grandfather yesterday?” said Phœbe, bringing out the question with a rush.</p>
			<p>Whether she was doing wrong, whether she might bring insult upon herself, whether it was an interference unwarrantable and unjustifiable, she could not tell. She was in as great a fright as Cotsdean, and more anxious still than he was; but fortunately her agitation did not show.</p>
			<p>“What am I to tell you about it, Miss?” said the man, terrified. “Is it <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Tozer as has sent you? Lord help me! I know as he can sell me up if he has a mind; but he knows it ain’t me.”</p>
			<p>“Don’t speak so loud,” said Phœbe, trembling too. “Nobody must hear; and remember, you are never, never to talk of this to any one else; but tell me plainly, that there may be no mistake. Is it⁠—<abbr>Mr.</abbr> May?”</p>
			<p>“Miss Tozer,” said Cotsdean, who was shaking from head to foot, “if that’s your name⁠—I don’t want to say a word against my clergyman. He’s stood by me many a day as I wanted him, and wanted him bad; but as I’m a living man, that money was never for me; and now he’s a-gone and left me in the lurch, and if your grandfather likes he can sell me up, and that’s the truth. I’ve got seven children,” said the poor man, with a sob breaking his voice, “and a missus; and nothing as isn’t in the business, not a penny, except a pound or two in a savings’ bank, as would never count. And I don’t deny as he could sell me up; but oh! Miss, he knows very well it ain’t for me.”</p>
			<p>“<abbr>Mr.</abbr> Cotsdean,” said Phœbe, impressively, “you don’t know, I suppose, that <abbr>Mr.</abbr> May had a fit when he received your note last night?”</p>
			<p>“Lord help us! Oh! God forgive me, I’ve done him wrong, poor gentleman, if that’s true.”</p>
			<p>“It is quite true; he is very, very ill; he can’t give you any advice, or assist you in any way, should grandpapa be unkind. He could not even understand if you told him what has happened.”</p>
			<p>Once more Cotsdean’s knees knocked against each other in the shadow of the counter. His very lips trembled as he stood regarding his strange visitor with scared and wondering eyes.</p>
			<p>“Now listen, please,” said Phœbe, earnestly; “if any one comes to you about the bill to-day, don’t say anything about <em>him</em>. Say you got it⁠—in the way of business⁠—say anything you please, but don’t mention <em>him</em>. If you will promise me this, I will see that you don’t come to any harm. Yes, I will; you may say I am not the sort of person to know about business, and it is quite true. But whoever comes to you remember this⁠—if you don’t mention <abbr>Mr.</abbr> May, I will see you safely through it; do you understand?”</p>
			<p>Phœbe leant across the counter in her earnestness. She was not the kind of person to talk about bills, or to be a satisfactory security for a man in business; but Cotsdean was a poor man, and he was ready to catch at a straw in the turbid ocean of debt and poverty which seemed closing round him. He gave the required promise with his heart in his mouth.</p>
			<p>Then Phœbe returned down the street. Her fatigue began to tell upon her, but she knew that she dared not give in, or allow that she was fatigued. However heavy with sleep her eyes might be, she must keep awake and watchful. Nothing, if she could help it, must so much as turn the attention of the world in <abbr>Mr.</abbr> May’s direction. By this time she was much too deeply interested to ask herself why she should do so much for <abbr>Mr.</abbr> May. He was her charge, her burden, as helpless in her hands as a child; and nobody but herself knew anything about it. It was characteristic of Phœbe’s nature that she had no doubt as to being perfectly right in the matter, no qualm lest she should be making a mistake. She felt the weight upon her of the great thing she had undertaken to do, with a certain half-pleasing sense of the solemnity of the position and of its difficulties; but she was not afraid that she was going wrong or suffering her fancy to stray further than the facts justified; neither was she troubled by any idea of going beyond her sphere by interfering thus energetically in her friend’s affairs. Phœbe did not easily take any such idea into her head. It seemed natural to her to do whatever might be wanted, and to act upon her own responsibility. Her self-confidence reached the heroic point. She knew that she was right, and she knew moreover that in this whole matter she alone was right. Therefore the necessity of keeping up, of keeping alert and vigilant, of holding in her hand the threads of all these varied complications was not disagreeable to her, though she fully felt its importance⁠—nay, almost exaggerated it in her own mind if that could be. She felt the dangerous character of the circumstances around her, and her heart was sore with pity for the culprit, or as she called him to herself the chief sufferer; and yet all the same Phœbe felt a certain sense of satisfaction in the great role she herself was playing. She felt equal to it, though she scarcely knew what was the nest step she ought to take. She was walking slowly, full of thought, to Tozer’s door, pondering upon this, when the sound of rapid wheels behind roused her attention, and looking up, surprised, she suddenly saw leaping out of a dog-cart the imposing figure of Clarence Copperhead, of whom she had not been thinking at all. He came down with a heavy leap, leaving the light carriage swinging and quivering behind him with the shock of his withdrawal.</p>
			<p>“Miss Phœbe!” he said, breathless; “here’s luck! I came over to see you, and you are the first person I set eyes on⁠—”</p>
			<p>He was rather heavy to make such a jump, and it took away his breath.</p>
			<p>“To see me?” she said, laughing, though her heart began to stir. “That is very odd. I thought you must have come to see poor <abbr>Mr.</abbr> May, who is so ill. You know⁠—”</p>
			<p>“May be hanged!” said the young man; “I mean⁠—never mind⁠—I don’t mean him any harm, though, by Jove, if you make such a pet of him, I don’t know what I shall think. Miss Phœbe, I’ve come over post-haste, as you may see; chiefly to see you; and to try a horse as well,” he added, “which the governor has just bought. He’s a very good ’un to go; and pleased the governor would be if he knew the use I had put him to,” he concluded, with a half-laugh.</p>
			<p>Phœbe knew as well as he did what that use was. He had brought his father’s horse out for the first time, to carry him here to propose to her, in spite of his father. This was the delicate meaning which it amused him to think of. She understood it all, and it brought a glow of colour to her face; but it did not steel her heart against him. She knew her Clarence, and that his standard of fine feeling and mental elevation was not high.</p>
			<p>“Look here,” he said, “I wish I could speak to you, Miss Phœbe, somewhere better than in the street. Yes, in the garden⁠—that will do. It ain’t much of a place either to make a proposal in, for that’s what I’ve come to do; but you don’t want me to go down on my knees, or make a fuss, eh? I got up in the middle of the night to be here first thing and see you. I never had a great deal to say for myself,” said Clarence, “you won’t expect me to make you fine speeches; but I <em>am</em> fond of you⁠—awfully fond of you, Phœbe, that’s the truth. You suit me down to the ground, music and everything. There’s no girl I ever met that has taken such a hold upon me as you.”</p>
			<p>Phœbe heard him very quietly, but her heart beat loud. She stood on the gravel between the flower-borders, where the primroses were beginning to wither, and glanced over her life of the past and that of the future, which were divided by this moment like the two beds of flowers; one homely, not very distinguished, simple enough⁠—the other exalted by wealth to something quite above mediocrity. Her heart swelled, full as it was with so many emotions of a totally different kind. She had gained a great prize, though it might not be very much to look at; more or less, she was conscious this golden apple had been hanging before her eyes for years, and now it had dropped into her hand. A gentle glow of contentment diffused itself all over her, not transport, indeed, but satisfaction, which was better.</p>
			<p>“<abbr>Mr.</abbr> Copperhead⁠—” she said, softly.</p>
			<p>“No, hang it all, call me Clarence, Phœbe, if you’re going to have me!” he cried, putting out his big hands.</p>
			<p>“Grandmamma is looking at us from the window,” she said, hurriedly, withdrawing a little from him.</p>
			<p>“Well, and what does that matter? The old lady won’t say a word, depend upon it, when she knows. Look here, Phœbe, I’ll have an answer. Yes or no?”</p>
			<p>“Have you got your father’s consent⁠—Clarence?”</p>
			<p>“Ah, it is yes then! I thought it would be yes,” he cried, seizing her in his arms. “As for the governor,” added Clarence, after an interval, snapping his fingers, “I don’t care <em>that</em> for the governor. When I’ve set my mind on a thing, it ain’t the governor, or twenty governors, that will stop me.”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
