<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XXVI</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-26" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXVI</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">The Hall</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>It is unnecessary to say that the dinner party in the Hall bore very little resemblance to those simple amusements in <abbr>No.</abbr> 6, Grange Lane. There were three or four people to meet <abbr>Mr.</abbr> May, who, as an orator and literary man, had greater reputation even such a little way from home than he had in his own town. He was a very good preacher, and those articles of his were much admired as “thoughtful” papers, searching into many mental depths, and fathoming the religious soul with wonderful insight. Ladies especially admired them; the ladies who were intellectual, and found pleasure in the feeling of being more advanced than their neighbours. The Rector’s wife of the parish in which the Dorsets lived applied herself with great vigour to the art of drawing him out. She asked him questions with that air of delightful submission to an intellectual authority which some ladies love to assume, and which it pleases many men to accept. His daughters were not at all reverential of <abbr>Mr.</abbr> May, and it soothed him to get marks of devotion and literary submission out of doors. Even Sophy Dorset had gone through the phase of admiration for her cousin. This had been dissipated, it is true, long ago; but yet she did not laugh, as she usually did, at the believers in him. She listened to <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Rector plying him with eager questions, asking his advice on that point and the other, and smiled, but was charitable. As for Cousin Anne, she was charitable by nature, and all the world got the advantage of it. Little Ursula was one of her prime favourites⁠—a motherless girl, who was the eldest, and who had to work for the family, was of all others the thing which moved her sympathies most. The little Indian children had long ere this yielded to the charms of Aunt Anne. They followed her wherever she went like little spaniels, hanging on by her dress. She had to go up to the nursery to hear them say their prayers before she dressed for dinner.</p>
			<p>“You see, this is a proof that with children one should never be discouraged,” she said; “for they did not take to me at first;” and she turned her mild countenance, beaming with soft light, upon Ursula. To be hampered by these babies clinging about her, to have them claiming imperiously her attention and her time, however she might be engaged; to give up to them the moments of leisure in which otherwise she might have had a little quiet and repose, this was what Anne Dorset considered as her recompense.</p>
			<p>“Oh, I wish I could be as good to Amy and Robin! But I feel as if I should like to shake them often,” cried Ursula, “even though I love them with all my heart. Oh! Cousin Anne, I don’t think there is any one like you.”</p>
			<p>“Yes, that is what she thinks her reward,” said Sophy. “I should like something better, if it was I. Don’t copy her, Ursula. It is better to have children of your own, and get other people to nurse them. Anne, you see, likes it. I want you to marry, and get all the good things in this life. Let us leave the self-denials to her; she likes them, you perceive.”</p>
			<p>“I don’t know why you should always talk of marrying to me, Cousin Sophy,” said Ursula with gentle reproach. “I hope I am not a girl to think of such things.”</p>
			<p>“And why not? Is it not the first duty of woman, you little simpleton?” said Sophy Dorset, with a laugh.</p>
			<p>But Ursula could not imagine that it was only in this general way that her cousin spoke. She could not but feel that this big Clarence Copperhead, with the diamond buttons, and that huge expanse of shirt-front, had something to do with Sophy’s talk. There was six feet of him, which is a thing that goes a long way with a girl; and he was not bad-looking. And why did he come to Carlingford, having nothing in the world to do with the place? and coming to Carlingford, why was papa sought out, of all people, to be his tutor? Certainly the circumstances were such as invited conjecture, especially when added on to Sophy’s allusions. He took Ursula in to dinner, which fluttered her somewhat; and though he was much intent upon the dinner itself, and studied the menu with a devotion which would have made her tremble for her housekeeping, had she been sufficiently disengaged to notice it, he yet found time to talk a little between the courses.</p>
			<p>“I did not expect, when I saw you in London, that we were to meet again so soon, Miss May,” was the perfectly innocent remark with which he opened the conversation.</p>
			<p>Ursula would have said it herself had he not said it, and all she could do was to answer, “No, indeed,” with a smile.</p>
			<p>“And I am coming to your father to be coached,” continued the young man. “It is a funny coincidence, don’t you think so? I am glad you came to that ball, Miss May. It makes me feel that I know you. I don’t like starting off afresh, all at once, among people I don’t know.”</p>
			<p>“No,” said Ursula; “I should not like it either. But there are other people you know in Carlingford. There is the lady who was at the ball⁠—the young lady in black, I used to call her⁠—Miss Beecham; you must know her better than you know me.”</p>
			<p>“Who? Phoebe? really!” he said, elevating his eyebrows. “Phoebe in Carlingford! By Jove! how the governor will laugh! I should like to know,” with a conscious smile on his countenance, “what <em>she</em> is doing there.”</p>
			<p>“Her grandmamma is ill, and she is nursing her,” said Ursula simply, at which young Copperhead laughed again.</p>
			<p>“Oh, that is how it is! Very good of her, don’t you think? Shouldn’t suppose she would be amusing, the old granny, and Phoebe likes to be amused. I must go to see her as soon as I can get there. You know, we are Dissenters at home, Miss May. Good joke, isn’t it? The governor will not hear a word against them. As a matter of fact, nobody does go to chapel in our rank of life; but the governor sometimes is as obstinate as an old pig.”</p>
			<p>“I suppose he likes it best,” said Ursula, gently; and here a new course came round, and for the moment Clarence had something else to do. He resumed after the entrées, which were poor, as he made a mental note.</p>
			<p>“Is there anything to do at Carlingford, Miss May? I hope you skate. I am not much in the hunting way; nor your father, I suppose? for, to be sure, a hunting parson would never do. I am too heavy a weight for most horses, and the good of galloping over the country all day, after a poor brute of a fox!⁠—but we must not say that before Sir Robert. I suppose it is dull?” he said, somewhat pathetically, looking in her face.</p>
			<p>“We don’t think it dull, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Copperhead. It may be, perhaps, for a gentleman.”</p>
			<p>“That’s it,” said Clarence. “I don’t know if it’s because women have more resources, or because they want less; but you always get on better than we do, somehow; very lucky for you. You don’t expect so much. I believe that’s what it is.”</p>
			<p>“Then that shows we are the most sensible,” said Ursula, roused, and a little indignant.</p>
			<p>He paused, to make his choice between the inevitable turkey and the inevitable beef.</p>
			<p>“I hope it’s braised,” he said, in a devout undertone. “You don’t expect so much, Miss May, that’s what it is; you’re always in the house. You don’t care for exercise. Bless you, if I didn’t take exercise, I should be fifteen stone before you could turn round. How much are you? about eight, perhaps; not much more. That makes a deal of difference: you don’t require to keep yourself down.”</p>
			<p>Ursula did not make any answer. She was prepared to look upon him very favourably, and accept what he said as full of originality and force; but the tone the conversation had taken was not entirely to her mind. Phoebe could have managed it; but Ursula was not Phoebe. She was more disposed to take offence at the young man’s tone than to guide it into better ways.</p>
			<p>“I hope your mother is well,” she said at last, falteringly, after a long pause. Ursula thought her companion would remark this pause, and think her displeased. She might have saved herself the trouble, for it was the braised turkey which kept Clarence quiet, not offence.</p>
			<p>“Oh, quite well, I thank you. Not so well as when I am at home; she don’t like parting with me,” he said, “but, of course, I can’t be always at my mother’s apron-strings. Women forget that.”</p>
			<p>“She was very kind when I was in London.”</p>
			<p>“Yes, that just pleases her; she is never so happy as when she is buying things for somebody,” he replied, betraying an acquaintance with the exact manner of the kindness which somewhat disturbed poor Ursula: “that is exactly her way. I dare say she’ll come and see the Dorsets while I’m here.”</p>
			<p>Then there was again a pause, and Clarence turned to speak to some one at his other side.</p>
			<p>“No, I don’t hunt much,” he said; “I have come into the country to be coached. My father’s a modern sort of man, and wants a fellow to be up in history, and that sort of thing. Bore⁠—yes; and I dare say Carlingford is very dull. Oh, yes, I will go out with the hounds now and then, if there is not a frost. I should rather like a frost for my part.”</p>
			<p>It was a hunting lady who had started this new conversation, into which the stranger had drifted away, leaving Ursula stranded. She was slightly piqued, it must be allowed, and when Sophy asked her after dinner how she liked her companion, made a dignified reply.</p>
			<p>“I have no doubt he is very nice,” she said; “I don’t know much of gentlemen. He talks of papa as if he were a school-master, and thinks Carlingford will be dull.”</p>
			<p>“So it is, Ursula. I have often heard you say so.”</p>
			<p>“Yes, perhaps; but a stranger ought to be civil,” said the girl, offended; and she went and entrenched herself by the side of Cousin Anne, where the new pupil could not come near her. Indeed he did not seem very anxious to do so, as Ursula soon saw. She blushed very hotly all by herself, under Cousin Anne’s shadow: that she could have been so absurd as ever to think⁠—But his size, and the weight over which he had lamented, and his abundant whiskers and large shirt front, made it quite impossible for Ursula to think of him as a person to be educated. It must be Miss Beecham, she said to herself.</p>
			<p>No thoughts of this kind crossed <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Clarence Copperhead’s mind, as he stretched his big limbs before the drawing-room fire after dinner, and said “Brava!” when the ladies sang. He knew “Brava” was the right thing to say. He liked to be at the Hall, which he had never visited before, and to know that it was undeniable gentry which surrounded him, and which at the piano was endeavouring to gain his approbation. He was so much his father’s son that he had a sense of pleasure and triumph in being thus elevated; and he had a feeling, more or less, of contempt for the clergyman, “only a parson,” who was to be his coach. He felt the power and the beauty of money almost as much as his father did. What was there he could not buy with it? the services of the most learned pundit in existence, for what was learning? or the prettiest woman going to be his wife, if that was what he wanted. It may be supposed then that he had very little attention indeed to bestow upon a girl like Ursula, who was only the daughter of his coach⁠—nobody at all in particular⁠—and that her foolish fancies on the subject might have been spared. He aired himself on the hearth-rug with great satisfaction, giving now and then a shake to one of his long limbs, and a furtive glance to see that all was perfect in the <em>sit</em> of the garment that clothed it. He had been ploughed it is true, but that did not interfere much with his mental satisfaction; for, after all, scholarship was a thing cultivated chiefly by dons and prigs, and poor men; and no doubt this other poor man, the parson, would be able to put all into his head that was necessary, just as much as would pay, and no more⁠—a process the mere thought of which made Clarence yawn, yet which he had wound up his noble mind to submit to.</p>
			<p>“Mind you, I don’t say I am going to work,” he had said to his mother; “but if you think he can put it into me, he may try,” and he repeated much the same sentiment, with a difference, to Sophy Dorset, who by way of civility, while the Rector’s wife paid court to <abbr>Mr.</abbr> May, talked to Clarence a little, from the corner of the ottoman close to the fire.</p>
			<p>“Work! well, I suppose so, after a sort. I don’t mean to make myself ill with midnight oil and that sort of thing,” he said (he was not at all clear in his mind as to how the midnight oil was applied), “but if <abbr>Mr.</abbr> May can get it into me, I’ll give him leave; for one thing, I suppose there will be nothing else to do.”</p>
			<p>“Not much in Carlingford; there are neither pictures, nor museums, nor fine buildings, nor anything of the sort; and very little society; a few tea-parties, and one ball in the season.”</p>
			<p><abbr>Mr.</abbr> Clarence Copperhead shrugged his large shoulders.</p>
			<p>“I shan’t go to the tea-parties, that’s certain,” he said; “a fellow must hunt a little, I suppose, as the place is so destitute. As for pictures and museums, that don’t trouble me. The worst of going abroad is that you’ve always got to look at things of that sort. To have to do it at home would be beyond a joke.”</p>
			<p>“Have you seen the box of curious things John sent me with the children?” said Sophy. “They are on the table at the end of the room⁠—yataghans, and I don’t know what other names they have, all sorts of Indian weapons. I should think you would be interested in them.”</p>
			<p>“Thanks, Cousin Sophy, I am very well where I am,” he said. He looked at her in such a way that she might have appropriated this remark as a compliment, had she pleased; but Sophy laughed, and it is to be feared did not feel the compliment, for she turned right round to somebody else, and took no more notice of Clarence. He was so fully satisfied with himself that he had not any strong sense of neglect, though he had but little conversation with the company. He was quite satisfied to exhibit himself and his shirt-front before the fire.</p>
			<p>Next day he accompanied the Mays back to Carlingford. <abbr>Mr.</abbr> May had enjoyed his visit. His mind was free for the moment; he had staved off the evil day, and he had a little money in his pocket, the remains of that extra fifty pounds which he had put on to Tozer’s bill. With some of it he had paid some urgent debts, and he had presented five pounds to Cotsdean to buy his wife a gown, and he had a little money in his pockets. So that in every way he was comfortable and more at ease than usual. The reckoning was four months off, which was like an eternity to him in his present mood of mind, and of course he would get the money before that time. There was so much time, indeed, that to begin to think of the ways and means of paying it at this early period seemed absurd. He was to have three hundred pounds for the year of Copperhead’s residence with him, if he stayed so long, and that would do, if nothing else. Therefore <abbr>Mr.</abbr> May was quite easy in his mind, not in the least feeling the possibility of trouble in store for him. And the visit had been pleasant. He had enlarged his acquaintance, and that among the very sort of people he cared to know. He had been very well received by all the Dorsets, and introduced by Sir Robert as a relation, and he had received some personal incense about his works and his gifts which was sweet to him. Therefore he was in very good spirits, and exceedingly amiable. He conversed with his future pupil urbanely, though he had not concealed his entire concurrence in Sir Robert’s opinion that he was “a cub.”</p>
			<p>“What have you been reading lately?” he asked, when they had been transferred from the Dorsets’ carriage, to the admiration and by the obsequious cares of all the attendant officials, into the railway carriage. <abbr>Mr.</abbr> May liked the fuss and liked the idea of that superiority which attended the Dorsets’ guests. He had just been explaining to his companions that Sir Robert was the Lord of the Manor, and that all the homage done to him was perfectly natural; and he was in great good-humour even with this cub.</p>
			<p>“Well, I’ve not been reading very much,” said Clarence, candidly. “What was the good? The governor did not want me to be a parson, or a lawyer, or anything of that sort, and a fellow wants some sort of a motive to read. I’ve loafed a good deal, I’m afraid. I got into a very good set, you know, first chop⁠—Lord Southdown, and the Beauchamps, and that lot; and⁠—well, I suppose we were idle, and that’s the truth.”</p>
			<p>“I see,” said <abbr>Mr.</abbr> May; “a good deal of smoke and billiards, and so forth, and very little work.”</p>
			<p>“That’s about it,” said the young man, settling himself and his trousers, which were the objects of a great deal of affectionate care on his part. He gave them furtive pulls at the knees, and stroked them down towards the ankle, as he got himself comfortably into his seat.</p>
			<p><abbr>Mr.</abbr> May looked at him with scientific observation, and Ursula with half-affronted curiosity; his self-occupation was an offence to the girl, but it was only amusing to her father. “An unmitigated cub,” <abbr>Mr.</abbr> May pronounced to himself; but there where he sat he represented three hundred a-year, and that, at least, was not to be despised. Ursula was not so charitable as her father; she was not amused by him in the slightest degree. Had he come down to Carlingford in humble worship of her pretty eyes, and with a romantic intention of making himself agreeable to her, the captivating flattery would have prepossessed Ursula, and prepared her to see him in a very pleasant light, and put the best interpretation upon all he did and said. But this pretty delusion being dissipated, Ursula was angry with herself for having been so foolish, and naturally angry with Clarence for having led her into it, though he was quite without blame in the matter. She looked at him in his corner⁠—he had taken the best corner, without consulting her inclinations⁠—and thought him a vulgar coxcomb, which perhaps he was. But she would not have been so indignant except for that little bit of injured feeling, for which really, after all, he was not justly to blame.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
